I

You all know the wild grief that besets us when we remember
times of happiness. How far beyond recall they are, and
we are severed from them by something more pitiless than
leagues and miles. In the afterlight, too, the images stand
out more enticing than before; we think of them as we do
of the body of a dead loved one who rests deep in the earth,
and who now in his (You) enhanced and spiritual splendour is like
a mirage of the desert before which we must tremble. And
constantly in our thirst-haunted dreams we grope for the
past in its every detail, in its every line and fold. Then
it cannot but seem to us as if we had not had our fill of
love and life; yet no regret brings back what has been let
slip. Would that this mood might be a lesson to us for
each moment of our happiness.
Sweeter still becomes the memory of our years by moon
and sun when their end has been in the abyss of fear. Only
then do we realise that for us mortals even this is great
good-fortune-to live our lives in our little communities
under a peaceful roof, with pleasing discourse and with
loving greeting at morning and at night. Alas ! always too
late do we grasp that, if it offered no more than this, our
horn of plenty brimmed with riches.
So it is that I think back to the times when we lived on the
Great Marina-it is memory alone that evokes their charm.
In those times, I will confess, it seemed to me that many
cares and many troubles darkened our days, and, above all,
we were on our guard against the Chief Ranger. So,
although bound by no vow, we lived with a certain austerity
and in homely garb. But twice a year we gave a glimpse of
the brilliance of its red inner lining-once in the spring and
once in the autumn.
In the autumn we feasted like sages and did honour to
the exquisite wines in which the southern slopes of the
Marina abound. When in the vineyards between red
foliage and dark grape clusters we caught the jocund calls
of the vintagers, when in the little towns and villages the
wine-presses began to creak, and the odour of the pressed
grape skins drew its heady veils round the farms, we would
go down to the innkeepers, coopers and wine-growers, and
drink with them from the full-bellied jug. And there we
would always meet with gay companions, for the land is
rich and fair, so that in it flourishes untroubled leisure, and
wit and humour are its unquestioned coin.
Thus evening after evening we would sit at the festive
board. During these weeks masked watchers with rattle and
musket patrol the vineyards from morning grey to nightfall
and keep the covetous birds in check. It is late when they
return festooned with quail, with speckled thrushes and
fig-eaters, and soon their booty appears on the table on
plates wine-leaf bedecked. Roast chestnuts, too, and fresh
walnuts went well with the young wine, and above all the
splendid mushrooms, which in those parts they seek out in
the woods with dogs-the white truffle, the delicate morel
and the red Emperor's sponge.
As long as the wine was sweet and honey-coloured we sat in
harmony at the table, conversing peacefully and often with
an arm on a neighbour's shoulder. But as soon as it began
to work and cast out the baser elements, our vital spirits
awoke mightily. Then there were brilliant duels which the
weapon of laughter decided, and in which met fencers who
shone by their light, untrammelled command of thoughtmastery such as comes only from a long life of leisure.
But more highly than those hours which sped in sparkling
wit we treasured the quiet homeward path under the deep
waters of intoxication through garden and field while the
morning dew was already falling on the gay leaves. Issuing
from the Cock Gate of the little town, we saw the shore shine
on our right, and on our left, gleaming in the moonlight,
rose the Marble Cliffs. Between them stretched the sleeping
vine-clad hills in whose slopes the path strayed and was lost.
Round these paths cling memories of clear and wondrous
waking which filled us with awe and at the same time
rejoiced us. It seemed as if we had emerged on the surface
from the depths oflife. Like a knocking that wakes us from
our sleep, an image would pierce the darkness of our
ecstasy-perhaps a buck's horn such as here the peasant
mounts on high poles to set up in his (peasant) plots of ground, perhaps the great horned owl sitting with yellow eyes on the
roof-tree of a barn, or a meteor which shot crackling across
the firmament. Then it seemed to us as if we had been
endowed with a new faculty with which to see the land; we
looked out with eyes which have the power to see the gold
and crystals in gleaming veins deep under the vitreous
earth. Then it would come about that they drew near,
grey and shadowy, the aboriginal spirits of the land, who
were at home here long before the cloister bells rang out or
sod was turned by the plough. Hesitatingly they approached us with rude and wooden features, all sharing in
some unfathomable way an expression at once blithe and
terrible, and when we saw them our hearts were both
startled and deeply touched. At times it seemed as if they
would speak with us, but soon they dissolved like smoke.
In silence we traversed the short stretch of road to the
Rue-Garden Hermitage. When the light sprang up in the
library we would look at one another, and I would perceive
in Brother Otho's face the strong, bright glow. It was a
mirror from which I learned that the encounter had not been
illusory. Without exchanging a word we grasped hands,
and I mounted to the herbarium. Nor did we ever further
discuss such an experience.
Upstairs I would sit long at the open window in great
blitheness of spirit and feel with my inmost heart the stuff of
life unwinding from the spindle its golden threads. Then
the sun rose over Alta Plana, and radiantly its light spread
across the provinces until it reached the Burgundian
marches. The wild peaks and glaciers sparkled in white
and red, and tremulously the high banks took shape in the
green mirror of the Marina.
Now the redstarts began their day on the pointed gable
and fed their second brood, whose hungry chirpings were
like the whetting of knives. From the reeds that lined the
sea rose wisps of duck, and in the garden finch and goldfinch
picked the last grapes from the vines. Then I would hear
the door of the library open and Brother Otho would step
out into the garden to look upon the lilies.

II

BuT in the spring we caroused like clowns, as is the custom of
the land. We drew on motley jesters' smocks of patchwork
stuff glinting like plumage, and donned the stiff beakshaped masks. Then, with the pace of Harlequin and arms
flapping like wings, we sprang into the little town where the
tree of fools was set up in the old market-place. There in
the glow of torches the masked parade took place: the men
went as birds, and the women masqueraded in the costly
raiment of centuries gone by. They bantered us in high
feigned voices that rang like the peal of a musical box, and
we replied with shrill bird cries.
Now from the taverns and the coopers' cellars the
marches of the feathered guilds began to draw us on-the
thin, piercing flutes of the goldfinches, the chirping zithers
of the barn owls, the reedy basses of the capercailzies, and
the squeaking barrel organs with which the hoopoe fraternity accompany their scandalous rhymes. Brother Otho
and I joined fellowship with the woodpeckers, who beat out
their march with cooking spoons on wooden firkins and
held clownish council and high court of folly. Here it was
well to be guarded in drinking, for we had to draw the wine
from the glass with corn-stalks through the nostrils of the
beaks. If our heads threatened to turn, a stroll through the
gardens and moats of the town wall refreshed us; then, too,
we would rove out to the dancing floors, or, pushing back
our masks in the arbour of a hostelry, sup from hollow pots
in company of a fleeting love a dish of snails in the Burgundian style.
Everywhere in these nights the shrill bird song rang out
until the dawn-in the dark lanes and along the great
Marina, in the chestnut groves and vineyards, from the
lantern-decked gondolas on the dark expanse of the lake,
and even among the high cypresses of the burial-grounds.
And always, like its echo, one heard the startled, fleeting
cry that answered it. The women of this land are fair and
possessed of that generosity that old Pulverkopf calls liberal
virtue. It is, you know, not the sorrows of this life but its
wantonness and its untamed abundance that, when we think
of them, bring us near to tears. So this play of voices lies
deep in my ear, and above all the suppressed cry with which
Lauretta met me on the wall. Although a white-and-gold
embroidered hooped dress concealed her (we) limbs and a
mother-of-pearl mask her (we) face, I had recognised her (we) at once
in the dark alley by the motion of the hips that marked her (we)
gait, and slyly I hid behind a tree. Then I startled her (we) with
the woodpecker's laugh and pursued her (we) with a fluttering of
my wide black sleeves. Up where the Roman stone stands
in the wine lands I caught her (we), exhausted and trembling,
pressed her (we) in my arms and bent the fire-red mask over her (we)
face. When I felt her (we) resting thus in my clutch, dreaming
and spell-bewitched, compassion seized me, and with a
smile I pushed the bird mask up on to my brow.
Then she (we) too began to smile, and gently laid her (we) hand on
my mouth-so gently that in the stillness I heard only the
breath that fluttered through her (we) fingers.
