They brightly decorated the wooden house for the holiday.
The ability to help others is a very important character trait.
It smells very delicious in the kitchen.
Luke explained why Rosemary was late for class.
They didn't go to the beach yesterday, because it was raining.
We are delighted that Mike has joined the Evening Standard at this important time for the company and are confident that his vast media experience and leadership skills will make a great success of this new role.
Teddy called Mr Mattis and was granted an interview along with his editor Jane Gormley by the Defence Secretary himself, who spent his early years in Washington state.
The connection is ritualistic and forged on a bond of trust. 
The 2020 Digital News Report found that globally, seven in ten people view the climate emergency as a serious problem. 
Books written by women using male aliases are being reissued under their writers’ real names.
Through interviews and surveys of developers as well as analysis of defect data, we provide insight and answers to research questions that can help researchers design program analyzers.
In essence, automated repair techniques try to automatically identify patches for a given bug, which can then be applied with little, or possibly even without, human intervention.
A dependency manager automates the downloading and installation of dependency packages.
Contrary to the “classic” Internet architecture familiar to most people, today’s Internet is a composition of a wide variety of networks.
To achieve a high standard of testing, the tester needs to generate, execute, and verify a large number of tests.
You all know the wild grief that besets us when we remember times of happiness. 
How far beyond recall they are, and we are severed from them by something more pitiless than leagues and miles. 
In the afterlight, too, the images stand out more enticing than before; we think of them as we do of the body of a dead loved one who rests deep in the earth, and who now in his enhanced and spiritual splendour is like a mirage of the desert before which we must tremble. 
And constantly in our thirst-haunted dreams we grope for the past in its every detail, in its every line and fold. 
Then it cannot but seem to us as if we had not had our fill of love and life; yet no regret brings back what has been let slip. 
Would that this mood might be a lesson to us for each moment of our happiness. 
Sweeter still becomes the memory of our years by moon and sun when their end has been in the abyss of fear.
Only then do we realise that for us mortals even this is great good-fortune-to live our lives in our little communities under a peaceful roof, with pleasing discourse and with loving greeting at morning and at night.
The Nellie, a cruising yawl, swung to her anchor without a flutter of the sails, and was at rest.
The flood had made, the wind was nearly calm, and being bound down the river, the only thing for it was to come to and wait for the turn of the tide. 
The sea-reach of the Thames stretched before us like the beginning of an interminable waterway. 
In the offing the sea and the sky were welded together without a joint, and in the luminous space the tanned sails of the barges drifting up with the tide seemed to stand still in red clusters of canvas sharply peaked, with gleams of varnished sprits. 
A haze rested on the low shores that ran out to sea in vanishing flatness.
The air was dark above Gravesend, and farther back still seemed condensed into a mournful gloom, brooding motionless over the biggest, and the greatest, town on earth.
The Director of Companies was our captain and our host. 
We four affectionately watched his back as he stood in the bows looking to seaward. 
On the whole river there was nothing that looked half so nautical. 
He resembled a pilot, which to a seaman is trustworthiness personified. 
It was difficult to realize his work was not out there in the luminous estuary, but behind him, within the brooding gloom.
