I

You all know the wild grief that besets us when we remember
times of happiness. How far beyond recall they are, and
we are severed from them by something more pitiless than
leagues and miles. In the afterlight, too, the images stand
out more enticing than before; we think of them as we do
of the body of a dead loved one who rests deep in the earth,
and who now in his enhanced and spiritual splendour is like
a mirage of the desert before which we must tremble. And
constantly in our thirst-haunted dreams we grope for the
past in its every detail, in its every line and fold. Then
it cannot but seem to us as if we had not had our fill of
love and life; yet no regret brings back what has been let
slip. Would that this mood might be a lesson to us for
each moment of our happiness.
Sweeter still becomes the memory of our years by moon
and sun when their end has been in the abyss of fear. Only
then do we realise that for us mortals even this is great
good-fortune-to live our lives in our little communities
under a peaceful roof, with pleasing discourse and with
loving greeting at morning and at night. Alas ! always too
late do we grasp that, if it offered no more than this, our
horn of plenty brimmed with riches.
So it is that I think back to the times when we lived on the
Great Marina-it is memory alone that evokes their charm.
In those times, I will confess, it seemed to me that many
cares and many troubles darkened our days, and, above all,
we were on our guard against the Chief Ranger. So,
although bound by no vow, we lived with a certain austerity
and in homely garb. But twice a year we gave a glimpse of
the brilliance of its red inner lining-once in the spring and
once in the autumn.
In the autumn we feasted like sages and did honour to
the exquisite wines in which the southern slopes of the
Marina abound. When in the vineyards between red
foliage and dark grape clusters we caught the jocund calls
of the vintagers, when in the little towns and villages the
wine-presses began to creak, and the odour of the pressed
grape skins drew its heady veils round the farms, we would
go down to the innkeepers, coopers and wine-growers, and
drink with them from the full-bellied jug. And there we
would always meet with gay companions, for the land is
rich and fair, so that in it flourishes untroubled leisure, and
wit and humour are its unquestioned coin.
Thus evening after evening we would sit at the festive
board. During these weeks masked watchers with rattle and
musket patrol the vineyards from morning grey to nightfall
and keep the covetous birds in check. It is late when they
return festooned with quail, with speckled thrushes and
fig-eaters, and soon their booty appears on the table on
plates wine-leaf bedecked. Roast chestnuts, too, and fresh
walnuts went well with the young wine, and above all the
splendid mushrooms, which in those parts they seek out in
the woods with dogs-the white truffle, the delicate morel
and the red Emperor's sponge.
As long as the wine was sweet and honey-coloured we sat in
harmony at the table, conversing peacefully and often with
an arm on a neighbour's shoulder. But as soon as it began
to work and cast out the baser elements, our vital spirits
awoke mightily. Then there were brilliant duels which the
weapon of laughter decided, and in which met fencers who
shone by their light, untrammelled command of thoughtmastery such as comes only from a long life of leisure.
But more highly than those hours which sped in sparkling
wit we treasured the quiet homeward path under the deep
waters of intoxication through garden and field while the
morning dew was already falling on the gay leaves. Issuing
from the Cock Gate of the little town, we saw the shore shine
on our right, and on our left, gleaming in the moonlight,
rose the Marble Cliffs. Between them stretched the sleeping
vine-clad hills in whose slopes the path strayed and was lost.
Round these paths cling memories of clear and wondrous
waking which filled us with awe and at the same time
rejoiced us. It seemed as if we had emerged on the surface
from the depths oflife. Like a knocking that wakes us from
our sleep, an image would pierce the darkness of our
ecstasy-perhaps a buck's horn such as here the peasant
mounts on high poles to set up in his plots of ground, perhaps the great horned owl sitting with yellow eyes on the
roof-tree of a barn, or a meteor which shot crackling across
the firmament. Then it seemed to us as if we had been
endowed with a new faculty with which to see the land; we
looked out with eyes which have the power to see the gold
and crystals in gleaming veins deep under the vitreous
earth. Then it would come about that they drew near,
grey and shadowy, the aboriginal spirits of the land, who
were at home here long before the cloister bells rang out or
sod was turned by the plough. Hesitatingly they approached us with rude and wooden features, all sharing in
some unfathomable way an expression at once blithe and
terrible, and when we saw them our hearts were both
startled and deeply touched. At times it seemed as if they
would speak with us, but soon they dissolved like smoke.
In silence we traversed the short stretch of road to the
Rue-Garden Hermitage. When the light sprang up in the
library we would look at one another, and I would perceive
in Brother Otho's face the strong, bright glow. It was a
mirror from which I learned that the encounter had not been
illusory. Without exchanging a word we grasped hands,
and I mounted to the herbarium. Nor did we ever further
discuss such an experience.
Upstairs I would sit long at the open window in great
blitheness of spirit and feel with my inmost heart the stuff of
life unwinding from the spindle its golden threads. Then
the sun rose over Alta Plana, and radiantly its light spread
across the provinces until it reached the Burgundian
marches. The wild peaks and glaciers sparkled in white
and red, and tremulously the high banks took shape in the
green mirror of the Marina.
Now the redstarts began their day on the pointed gable
and fed their second brood, whose hungry chirpings were
like the whetting of knives. From the reeds that lined the
sea rose wisps of duck, and in the garden finch and goldfinch
picked the last grapes from the vines. Then I would hear
the door of the library open and Brother Otho would step
out into the garden to look upon the lilies.

II

BuT in the spring we caroused like clowns, as is the custom of
the land. We drew on motley jesters' smocks of patchwork
stuff glinting like plumage, and donned the stiff beakshaped masks. Then, with the pace of Harlequin and arms
flapping like wings, we sprang into the little town where the
tree of fools was set up in the old market-place. There in
the glow of torches the masked parade took place: the men
went as birds, and the women masqueraded in the costly
raiment of centuries gone by. They bantered us in high
feigned voices that rang like the peal of a musical box, and
we replied with shrill bird cries.
Now from the taverns and the coopers' cellars the
marches of the feathered guilds began to draw us on-the
thin, piercing flutes of the goldfinches, the chirping zithers
of the barn owls, the reedy basses of the capercailzies, and
the squeaking barrel organs with which the hoopoe fraternity accompany their scandalous rhymes. Brother Otho
and I joined fellowship with the woodpeckers, who beat out
their march with cooking spoons on wooden firkins and
held clownish council and high court of folly. Here it was
well to be guarded in drinking, for we had to draw the wine
from the glass with corn-stalks through the nostrils of the
beaks. If our heads threatened to turn, a stroll through the
gardens and moats of the town wall refreshed us; then, too,
we would rove out to the dancing floors, or, pushing back
our masks in the arbour of a hostelry, sup from hollow pots
in company of a fleeting love a dish of snails in the Burgundian style.
Everywhere in these nights the shrill bird song rang out
until the dawn-in the dark lanes and along the great
Marina, in the chestnut groves and vineyards, from the
lantern-decked gondolas on the dark expanse of the lake,
and even among the high cypresses of the burial-grounds.
And always, like its echo, one heard the startled, fleeting
cry that answered it. The women of this land are fair and
possessed of that generosity that old Pulverkopf calls liberal
virtue. It is, you know, not the sorrows of this life but its
wantonness and its untamed abundance that, when we think
of them, bring us near to tears. So this play of voices lies
deep in my ear, and above all the suppressed cry with which
Lauretta met me on the wall. Although a white-and-gold
embroidered hooped dress concealed her limbs and a
mother-of-pearl mask her face, I had recognised her at once
in the dark alley by the motion of the hips that marked her
gait, and slyly I hid behind a tree. Then I startled her with
the woodpecker's laugh and pursued her with a fluttering of
my wide black sleeves. Up where the Roman stone stands
in the wine lands I caught her, exhausted and trembling,
pressed her in my arms and bent the fire-red mask over her
face. When I felt her resting thus in my clutch, dreaming
and spell-bewitched, compassion seized me, and with a
smile I pushed the bird mask up on to my brow.
Then she too began to smile, and gently laid her hand on
my mouth-so gently that in the stillness I heard only the
breath that fluttered through her fingers.

III
BUT otherwise we lived, day in, day out, in our Rue-Garden•
Hermitage in great seclusion. The Hermitage stood at the
edge of the Marble Cliffs in the middle of one of those rock
islands which here and there one sees breaking through the
grape land. Its garden had been won from the rock in
narrow terraces, and on the sides of its drystone walls wild
herbs had settled such as thrive in the fertile vine-growing
country. Thus in the early year the blue pearl clusters of
the grape hyacinth bloomed, and in autumn the geans
rejoiced us with the red Chinese lantern gleam of their fruit.
But at all seasons house and garden were ringed with the
silvery green rue bushes from which, when the sun was high,
a pungent odour rose in swirls.
At midday, when the great heat warmed the grapes to
maturity, it was refreshingly cool in the cloister, for not only
were its floors laid with mosaics in the southern style, but
also many of its rooms extended back into the cliff. Yet at
this time I loved to lie stretched on the terrace and listen,
half asleep, to the glassy singing of the cicadas. Then the
butterflies sailed down into the garden and alit on the saucer
blooms of the wild poppies, and on the crags the pearly
lizards sunned themselves on the stone. And finally, when
the white sand of the snake path flamed in the midday glow,
the lance-head vipers drew themselves slowly forward on to
it, and soon it was covered with their hieroglyphics like
a papyrus roll.
We felt no fear of these beasts which made their homes
in swarms among the clefts and crevices of the RueGarden Hermitage; on the contrary, by day their iridescence
charmed us, and by night the fine resonant piping with which
they accompanied their courting. Often we would step over
them with clothes slightly caught up, and when we had a
visitor who feared them would push them aside with our
feet. But invariably we accompanied our guests hand in
hand along the snake path; and at such times I noticed that
the feeling of freedom and the dancer's sureness that possessed us on this stretch of ground seemed to communicate
itself to them.
Many things combined to make the animals so familiar,
but had it not been for Lampusa, our old cook, we would
have been scarcely aware of their habits. Every evening
through all the summer Lampusa put out for them before
her rock-hewn kitchen a silver quaich of milk; then she
summoned the creatures with a low call. Then over all the
garden the golden coils were to be seen glistening in the last
rays of the sun-over the dark soil of the lily beds and the
silver-grey rue hummocks, and high up in the hazel and
elder bushes. Now, forming the blazon of the flaming
fire-wheel, they laid themselves round the quaich and
received the offering.
Lampusa had early begun to hold little Erio in her arms
during the ceremony, and his tiny voice accompanied her
call. But what was my amazement one evening to see the
child, who could scarcely walk, drag the quaich into the
open. There he beat the rim with a pearwood spoon, and
the gleaming red snakes came gliding from the clefts of the
Marble Cliffs. As if in a waking dream I heard him laugh
as he stood amongst them on the trodden clay of the courtyard before the kitchen. Half erect, the creatures played
around him and swayed their heavy triangular heads to and
fro above his with rapid beat. I stood on the balcony and
did not dare to call to my boy, as if he were a sleep-walker
wandering on the heights. But then I saw old Lampusa
standing with crossed arms before the kitchen door and
smiling, and there spread through me the joyous feeling of
safety in the burning heart of danger.
From that evening it was Erio who called us with the
supper bell. As soon as we heard the ring of the quaich
we laid aside our work to watch his offering with delight.
Brother Otho hastened from his library and I from the
herbarium on the inner gallery. Lampusa, too, forsook
her fireside to watch the child with proud and tender look.
It was the earnestness with which he disciplined the animals
that most amused us. Soon he could call each one by name,
and in his gold-embroidered dress of blue velvet would run
about within their circle with childish steps. He was
careful, too, to see that all received their share of milk, and
made room for the late-comers at the quaich. Then with
his pearwood spoon he would beat one or other of the
drinkers on the head, or if it did not make way quickly
enough seized it by the nape of the neck and dragged it
away with might and main. However he might grip them
the· while, the animals were always gentle and tame with
him, even when they were at their most tender at sloughing
time. Then the herdsmen will not let their cattle go to
pasture near the Marble Cliffs, for a bite that finds its mark
fells even the strongest steer with lightning speed.
Above all, Erio loved the biggest and most beautiful of
the snakes, which Brother Otho and I called the Griffon,
and which-as we learned from the tales of the winegrowers-had had its home in the clefts as long as man could
remember. The body of the lance-head viper is metallic
red, patterned with scales like burnished brass. But this
griffon was cast in pure and faultless golden brilliance,
changing at the head to jewel-like green and gaining in
lustre. When she was aroused, too, she could swell her
neck till it was a shield that sparkled like a golden mirror
in the attack. It seemed as if the others did her reverence,
for none touched the quaich before the golden one had
quenched her thirst. Then we would see little Erio frolicking with her, while, like a kitten, she rubbed her pointed
head against his dress.
When it was over Lampusa would bring us our suppertwo glasses of common wine and two slices of dark and
salty bread.

IV
the· terrace one passed through a glass door into the
library. In the morning when it was fine this door stood
wide open so that Brother Otho, sitting at·his· great table,
seemed to be in a part of the garden. I loved to enter this
room where green leafy shadows played on the ceiling while
into its stillness penetrated the chirping of the young birds
and the nearby humming of the bees.
On its frame by the window stood the wide drawingboard, and on the walls the books towered up in rows to
the ceiling. The lowest of them stood on a broad shelf
that was cut to the size of the folios-the great Hortus
Plantarum Mundi and the hand-illuminated works of which
the art is lost. Above them protruded the specimen cases,
which could be enlarged by sliding panels, covered with
scattered papers mixed with mountings of pressed leaves.
Their dark wooden shelves also bore a collection of fossilised
plants which we had chiselled out in lime-pits and mines,
and scattered through them were numerous crystals laid out
for their beauty's sake or for weighing in the hand when
talk was deep. Above them rose the small volumes-a not
over-extensive collection of botanical works, but one which
lacked nothing ever written on lilies. And this section of
the library was divided into three classes-into works
dealing with form, colour and scent.
The rows of books continued in the small hall and
followed the stair that led up into the herbarium. Here
stood the church fathers, the thinkers and the classical
authors, ancient and modern, and, above all, a collection of
dictionaries and encyclopredias of all kinds. In the evening
I would join company with Brother Otho in the little hall
where a small fire of vine-cuttings burned in the hearth.
If our work prospered during the day we would indulge in
that manner of talk in the course of which well-worn paths
are trod and dates and authorities acknowledged. We
amused ourselves with the curiosities of erudition and with
quotations chosen for rarity or a touch of the absurd. Then
we were well served by the legion of leather- or parchmentbound slaves.
Usually I went up into the herbarium early in the day
and worked on there till after midnight. When we moved
into the cloister we had had the floor well laid with wood
and had set up long rows of cupboards. In them were
heaped in their thousands bundles of mounted flowers.
Only a minute proportion of them had been collected by us,
and most had been passed on by hands long since turned to
dust. At times, when looking for a plant, I would even come
across sheets browned by time on which the faded signature
was from the pen of the great Master Linnreus himself. In
these night and morning hours I filled in labels and built
up the index-first, the great catalogue of the collection and
then the Little Flora in which we recorded all our discoveries
in the territory of the Marina. On the foilowing day
Brother Otho, with the aid of reference books, would check
the labels, adding detail or colour. So a work grew, and in
its very growing we rejoiced.
When we are happy our senses are contented with however little this world cares to offer. I had long done
reverence to the kingdom of plants, and during years of
travel had tracked down its wonders. I knew intimately
the sensation of that moment when the heart ceases to beat
and we divine in a flower's unfolding the mysteries that each
grain of seed conceals. Yet the splendour of growth and
blossoming was never nearer to me than when I trod this
room with its wafted scent of long-withered greenery.
Before I laid myself to rest I would pace up and down a
while in its narrow centre aisle. Often at these midnight
hours I seemed to see the plants more brilliant and more
splendid than ever before. From afar I caught the fragrance
of the white-starred thorny valleys where I had drunk in the
bitter springtide of Arabia Deserta, or the scent of vanilla
which refreshes the wanderer in the shadeless furnace of the
candelabra woods. Then there opened up like the pages of
some old book memories of hours spent amidst savage profusion-of hot marshes where the Victoria Regia blooms, of
tidal groves seen sweltering at noon on their pale stilts far
from the palm-lined coast. Yet I felt none of that fear
which seizes us when we face the prodigality of nature's
growth and see in it the alluring thousand-armed image of a
god. I felt that through our studies the power increased
to hold at bay the forces of life like a steed on the curb.
Often the dawn was showing grey before I stretched myself
on the narrow camp bed that was set up in the herbarium.

V
LAMPUSA's kitchen stretched far back into the Marble Cliff.
In times gone by such caves provided shelter and lodging
for the herdsmen, and later were included within the
precincts of the farmsteads. Early in the morning when
she was cooking Brio's gruel one would see the old woman
standing by the fire. Still deeper vaults led off from the
kitchen; in them there was the scent of milk, of fruit and
oozing wine. It was seldom that I entered this part of the
Hermitage, for the presence of Lampusa awoke in me a
feeling of constraint that I preferred to avoid. But Erio
knew every nook and corner.
Brother Otho, too, I would often see standing with the old
woman by the fire. To him I owed the happiness that had
been my lot with Erio, the love-child of Silvia, Lampusa's
daughter. In those days we were in service with the Purple
Horse in the abortive campaign against the free peoples of
Alta Plana. Often when we rode up to the passes we would
see Lampusa standing before her hut with at her side the
slender figure of Silvia in her red head-cloth and red skirt.
Brother Otho was with me when I gathered from the dust
the carnation which Silvia had taken from her hair and
thrown in our path. As we rode on he warned memockingly, but with an undertone of anxiety-against
witches, old and young. But I was more nettled by the
laughter of Lampusa, who scanned me with a glance in
which I saw the shamelessness of a bawd. And yet it was
not long before I frequented her hut.
When we returned to the Marina on our discharge and
moved into the Hermitage we learned of the child's birth,
learned, too, that Silvia had abandoned it and travelled off
with strangers. The news disturbed me all the more since
it affected me at the beginning of a period when, after the
sufferings of the campaign, I wished to dedicate my days to
quiet studies.
And so I gave Brother Otho full powers to seek out
Lampusa, consult with her, and grant her what seemed fit to
him. What was my astonishment to learn that he had taken
the child and herself into our household; and yet this step
soon proved to be a blessing for us all. And since one may
recognise the justice of an action from the fact that through
it the past finds its fulfilment, so now my love for Silvia
appeared to me in a new light. I recognised that I had been
prejudiced against both her and her mother, and, finding her
light, had dealt with her all too lightly, taking for mere glass
a jewel that sparkled on the open road. Yet everything of
price falls to us by chance; the best is unpaid for.
Admittedly, to achieve this equilibrium that open-
mindness was necessary which was Brother Otho's by nature.
It was a basic principle with him to treat each single person
with whom we came into contact as a rare find discovered
on one's travels. Then, too, his favourite name for men
was " the optimates," to signify that everyone must be
numbered among the true-born nobility of this world, and
that from any one of them we may receive supreme gifts.
To him they were vessels stored with wonders, and to figures
of such nobility he accorded the rights of princes. And in
truth I saw how each one who approached him unfolded
like a plant awaking from its winter sleep; it was not that
they became better, but that they became more themselves.
As soon as she had settled in, Lampusa took charge of
the housekeeping. The work was no labour to her, and in
the garden too she had green fingers. Whereas Brother
Otho and I planted strictly according to rules, she casually
laid the seed under a dusting of earth and let the weeds riot
at will. And yet without exertion she harvested three times
our winnings in seed and fruit. Often I would see her look
with a mocking smile at the oval porcelain boards in our
beds which bore the name and species in Brother Otho's
fine sign-painter's hand. Then, like an old boar, she would
bare the last great incisor that remained to her.
Although, like Erio, I called her Grandmother, she spoke
to me almost entirely of household matters, often in the
foolish vein that housekeepers adopt. Silvia's name was
never mentioned. Yet I was ill at ease when, the evening
after the night on the wall, Lauretta came to fetch me away.
The old woman, on the other hand, showed marked high
spirits, and hastened to bring out wine, titbits and sweetmeats for the visitor.
In Erio I discovered the natural pleasure of a parent and
the spiritual one of an adoptive father. We loved his
quiet, noticing nature. Since all children have the habit of
imitating the activities they see in their small world, he
early became interested in plants. Often we would see him
sit for hours on the terrace watching a lily on the point of
unfolding, and when the bloom had opened he would hasten
into the library to rejoice Brother Otho with the news. So,
too, he loved to stand in the early morning beside the marble
basin in which we reared water-roses from Zipangu whose
blooms burst their sheath with a scarcely audible noise at
the first touch of the sun. In the herbarium, too, I had
provided a little chair for him, on which he often sat and
watched me at my work. When I felt him sitting quietly at
my side I seemed to be refreshed, as if things had acquired
a new light from the deep bright flame that burned in his
little body. And it seemed to me as if animals were drawn
to him; for instance, I noticed every time I met him in the
garden how the ladybirds flew round him, running over his
hands and playing around his hair. Strange, too, was the
fact that the vipers, when called by Lampusa, surrounded
the quaich in mixed and glowing braids, whereas with Brio
they formed a rayed wheel. This Brother Otho was the
first to notice.
So it came about that our life diverged from the plans
that we had spun. But we noticed that this divergence
caused the work to prosper.

VI
WE had arrived with the plan of studying plant life
intensively, and had therefore begun in accordance with
old and well-tried methodology with their breathing and
nourishment. Like all things of this earth, plants too
attempt to speak to us, but one requires sharp senses to
understand their speech. Although in their seeding,
blooming and decay there lies hid the illusion which nothing
created may escape, yet one may easily discern the unchanging quality that lies locked within the outward show of
things. The art of rendering one's sight thus keen Brother
Otho called '' sucking time dry ''; but he was of the mind
that this side of death the cup cannot be drained.
After we had settled down we discovered that our thesis
had extended in scope almost against our will. Perhaps it
was the strong air of the Rue-Garden Hermitage that gave
our thought a new twist, just as a flame burns bolder and
brighter in a pure gas. So even after the first few weeks
it seemed to me as if external things were being transformed;
and the transformation first manifested itself to me as an
inability to express myself in words.
One morning as I looked out on to the Marina from the
terrace, her waters appeared to me deeper and more translucent, as if I were seeing them for the first time with
unclouded vision. At the same moment I felt, almost with
anguish, words and phenomena springing apart like the cord
from an over-taut bow. I had seen a fragment of the
iridescent veil of this world, and from that hour my tongue
failed me.
At the same time, however, a new awareness possessed
me. Like a child groping with its hands when the light of
its eyes is first directed out upon the world; I cast around
for words and images to catch the new splendour which
dazzled me. I had never before divined that speech itself
could be such a torment, and yet I did not regret the old
and care-free life. If we dream of flying, a clumsy spring
brings us more joy than the security of well-trod paths. It
is thus, too, that I explain the sensation of giddiness which
often assailed me during my attempts.
When we seek out unknown ways it is easy to lose sense
of balance. So I was fortunate in Brother Otho's company
as he moved forward by my side with guarded step. Often
when I had fathomed the mystery of a word I would hasten
down to him, pen in hand, and often he mounted to the herbarium on the same errand. We took pleasure, too, in
forming images, which we called " models," formed by
writing on a piece of paper four or five phrases in light metre.
Through them we aimed to fix a fragment of this world's
mosaic like a stone mounted in metal. For these models
we had begun with plants, and continually returned to them.
Thus we described objects and their metamorphoses, from
the grain of sand to the cliff of marble, and from the fleeting
second to the changing year. In the evening we would
collect our scraps, and when we had read them would
burn them on the hearth.
Soon we felt our energies increasing, and a new sureness
possessed us. The word is both king and magician. Our
high example we found in Linnreus, who went out into the
unruly world of plants and animals with the word as his
sceptre of state. And more wonderful than any swordwon empire, his power extends over the flowering fields and
nameless insect hosts.
Thus we, too, were driven on by the presentiment that
order reigns among the elements; for man feels impelled to
imitate creation with his feeble faculties, as a bird is driven
to build its nest. And our labours were abundantly
rewarded with the revelation that rule and measure are imbedded in the hazards and disorders of this earth. As we
climb, we draw nearer to that secret whose final mysteries
are hidden in the dust. So with every upward step the
chance pattern of the horizon is lost among the mountains,
but when we have climbed sufficiently it encircles us on
every hand, whatever our point of vantage, with the pure
ring that unites us to eternity.
It is true that our achievements in this field remained
prentice work and childish learning; yet we felt our joy
increase, as it must in anyone whose goal is set beyond the
common mark. The landscape of the Marina lost its
dazzling quality, but gained in clarity and definition. The
days flowed by with stronger, swifter current, like water that
has found its course. Occasionally when the west wind
blew we seemed to savour in anticipation the pleasures of
unshadowed joy.
Above all, we lost something of that fear that beset us
and troubled our minds like a marsh mist. Thus it came
about that our work was not abandoned when the Chief
Ranger seized power in our territory and terror spread
throughout the land.

VII
WE had long known the Chief Ranger as a grand master of
Mauretania. We had often seen him at junketings, and
diced and wined with him through many a night. He was
one of those figures whom the Mauretanians respect as
great lords and yet find somewhat ridiculous-rather as an
old colonel of the mounted yeomanry is received in the
regiment on his occasional visits from his estates. He left
an imprint on one's memory, if only because his green coat
with its gold-embroidered ilex leaves drew all eyes to him.
His wealth was rumoured to be boundless, and at the
banquets which he gave in his town house profusion
reigned. There, in the old style, drinking was hard and
stakes were high, so that the oak boards of the great gaming
table groaned under its load of gold. Famous, too, were
the oriental suppers in his little villas, to which were invited
the favoured few. Thus I had frequent opportunities to
see him close at hand, and felt the breath of primitive
power that surrounded him like a breeze from his forests.
At this period I was scarcely disturbed by the inflexibility
of his nature, for all Mauretanians acquire with time something of the nature of an automaton. This characteristic
is particularly marked in their glance, and so the eyes
of the Chief Ranger, too,-especially when he laughedgleamed with terrifying mirth. Like those of hardened
drinkers, they were touched with a red flame, but expressed
both cunning and unshakable power-yes, at times even
majesty. Then we took pleasure in his company and lived
in arrogance at the table of the great ones of the world.
Later I was to hear Brother Otho say of our Mauretanian
period that mistakes become errors only when persisted in.
It was a saying that gained in truth for me when I thought
back to our position when this Order attracted us. There
are periods of decline when the pattern fades to which our
inmost life must conform. When we enter upon them we
sway and lose our balance. From hollow joy we sink to
leaden sorrow, and past and future acquire a new charm
from our sense of loss. So we wander aimlessly in the
irretrievable past or in distant Utopias; but the fleeting
moment we cannot grasp.
As soon as we had become aware of this failure we strove
to free ourselves. We felt a longing for actuality, for reality,
and would have plunged into ice or fire or ether only to
rid ourselves of weariness. As always when despair and
maturity combine, we turned to power-for is that not the
eternal pendulum that drives on the hand of time by day or
night ? So we began to dream of power and domination,
and of the forms that in bold array advance to combat in the
deadly struggle for existence, whether the outcome be disaster or triumphant victory. We studied them with the
pleasure one finds in watching corrosions form as acid bites
into dark mirrors of polished metal. Such being our
inclination, it was inevitable that the Mauretanians should
seek us out. Our sponsor was the Condottiere who had put
down the rising in the Iberian provinces.
Anyone acquainted with the history of the secret Orders
knows that their ramifications are difficult to assess.
Similarly it is common knowledge with what fertility they
form branches and colonies, so that attempts to trace them
down end in a maze. For the Mauretanians too this held
good. To the newcomer it was particularly strange to see
in their meeting-places members of deadly hostile groups
in friendly conversation. Among the aims of the Mauretanians was artistry in the dealings of this world. They
demanded that power should be exercised dispassionately as
by a god, and correspondingly its schools produced a race
of spirits who were bright, untrammelled, but always
terrible. Similarly, whether their duties lay in insurrection or in order, wherever they won the day they won it
as Mauretanians, and the proud '' Semper victrix '' of this
Order applied not only to its members, but to its head and
fount of doctrine. Immovable among the wild currents of
the times he stood, and in his residences and palaces one
was on firm ground.
It was not because we enjoyed peace, however, that we
willingly spent our time with them. When man loses his
props fear begins to sway him, and he is driven along
blindly in its whirlwinds. But with the Mauretanians absolute stillness reigned, as in the heart of a cyclone. They
say that if one falls headlong into an abyss one sees things
in the minutest detail as though through a crystal-clear lens.
This-without the fear-was the vision that one acquired in
the air of Mauretania, in an atmosphere which was poisoned
through and through. At the very moment when terror
reigned, coolness of thought and spiritual detachment
increased. In the face of catastrophe good-humour was
everywhere, and they would jest at it like the keeper of a
gaming-table at the losses of his clients.
Then I saw clearly that the panic whose shadows always
lie over our great towns has its counterpart in the cool
audacity of the few who circle like birds of prey over inarticulate suffering. Once when we were drinking with the
Condottiere he looked into his wine-dewed glass as if it were
a mirror that held the images of times long past; then he
said pensively:" No glass of noble wine was more precious
than the one they handed to us beside our machines the
night we burned Saguntum to the ground.'' Then we
thought: It is better to fall with him than live with those
who grovel in the dust from fear.
But this is away from my story. Among the Mauretanians one could learn the sports that still delight such spirits
as have broken all bonds and are sated even with mockery.
For them the world was no more than a map charted for
connoisseurs with the aid of metal discs and shining instruments, to handle which is a pleasure in itself. Therefore
it seemed strange to find in this clear, unshadowed and
most abstract of realms figures like the Chief Ranger. Yet
Wherever free spirits establish their sway these primeval
Powers will always join their company like a snake creeping
to the open fire. They are the old connoisseurs of power
who see a new day dawning in which to re-establish the
tyranny that has lived in their hearts since the beginning
of time. Thus there develop in the great Orders secret and
subterranean channels in which the historian is lost. Subtle
conflicts break out and smoulder in the innermost seats of
power, conflicts between symbols and theories, conflicts
between idols and spirits.
In the course of such conflicts it has been the lot of
many to trace the knavery of this world to its source.
Such, too, had been my experience when I penetrated into
the Chief Ranger's hunting-grounds in search of long-lost
Fortunio. From that time on I learned the limits which
no audacity may overstep, and shunned the dark fringe of
the forest which their master loved to call his " Teutoburger
Wald "; for he was a master of feigning frankness that was
full of snares for the unwary.

VIII
my search for Fortunio I had penetrated the
northern edge of these woods, whereas our Hermitage lay
near their southern extremity which marches with Burgundy.
On our return we found only a shadow of the old way of life
by the Marina. Up till then it had held sway almost un·
altered since the time of Charlemagne, for whatever over·
lords might come or go, the wine-growers remained sober
and law-abiding. Then, too, the richness and luxury of the
soil tempered every overlordship to mildness, however
harsh it might at first have been. Such is the eftect of
beauty on power.
But the war on the borders of Alta Plana, waged as if
against the infidel, had had a more profound effect,
ravaging like a frost that splits a tree to the core, but whose
effect is first apparent only years later. That was how life
developed by the Marina. It was the old life, and yet something had changed in it. Sometimes when we stood on the
terrace and looked out on to the encircling gardens we
seemed to catch a breath of hidden listlessness and anarchy.
It was then that the beauty of the land touched our hearts
with pain. Thus the colours of life stand out in final
splendour before the sun sinks.
At first we heard little of the Chief Ranger; but it was
noteworthy how as lassitude set in and reality dissolved he
drew ever nearer. At first one heard only rumours like
the first obscure heralds of a pest raging in distant harbours.
Then reports spread from mouth to mouth of infringements
of the law and of acts of violence in the neighbourhood, and
finally such incidents occurred publicly and with no attempt
at concealment. A cloud of fear preceded the Chief
Ranger like the mountain mist that presages the storm.
Fear enveloped him, and I am convinced that therein far
more than in his own person lay his power. Only when
things had begun to totter from their inherent weakness
could he exercise his might; but when that moment came his
forests were well placed for assault against the land.
If one climbed to the summit of the Marble Cliffs one
could look down on to the entire expanse of territory over
which he aimed to dominate. To reach the peak we used to
clamber up the narrow staircase hollowed from the rock
beside Lampusa's kitchen. Its rain-washed steps led out on
to a projecting ledge from which to view the country round
as far as the eye could see. Here we lingered many an hour
in the sun while the cliffs sparkled with colour, for where
the trickling water ate at the dazzling white stone it had
taken on red and yellow lights. Dark ivy hung in heavy
curtains, and in the damp crevices there sparkled the silver
leaves of lunaria.
During the ascent our feet would catch on the bramble
creepers and startle the lizards, which fled with a flash of
green among the crags. Up where the overhang was deep
in turf, sown with blue-starred gentians, were crystal-edged
cavities in whose recesses owls blinked dreamily. There
too, the swift rust-brown falcons nested; we passed so close
to their broods that we saw the nostrils in their beaks and
the fine skin that covered them like a film of blue wax
Up here on the summit the air was fresher than below
in the hollow, where the vines shimmered in the heat.
Occasionally the heat forced up a gust of air that whistled in 
the rock chimneys as if they were organ pipes, and brought 
with it traces of rose, almond and balm. From our perch
on the cliffs we saw the roof of the cloister far below us.
To the south beyond the Marina, Alta Plana towered
behind its ring of glaciers. Often its peaks were shrouded
by mist rising from the water, at other times the air was so
clear that we could distinguish the conifers which push far
up into the scree. On such days we felt the storm brewing
and put out our house fires over night.
Often our glance would rest on the islands of the Marina,
which we jokingly called the Hesperides, and whose shores
were dark with cypresses. Even in the hardest winters
frost or snow are unknown there; figs and oranges ripen in
the open and roses bloom through the year. When almond
and apricot are in bloom the people of the Marina love to
be rowed across the water; then the isles are like gay petals
on the blue surface of the stream. In the autumn, again,
they sail across to eat St. Peter's fish, which rise to the
surface from the depths when the moon is full, and strain the
nets with their shoals. The fishers lay their nets in silence,
for they hold that even a whisper will frighten off the fish,
and that an oath will ruin the catch. These fish-eating
excursions were always merry ones; one went provisioned
with bread and wine, for the vine does not bear well on the
islands. There there are no cool autumn nights when the
dew falls on the grapes and their fiery spirit quickens with a
presentiment of decay.
To understand what is meant by living one had to look
down to the Marina on one of these gay holidays. Early in
the morning the whole gamut of noises rose up to us, fine
and distinct, like objects seen through a reversed spy-glass.
We heard the bells of the towns and the petards saluting the
flag-dressed ships in the harbours, or it would be the hymns
of pious processions going on pilgrimage to miraculous
images, or the music of the flutes in a bridal train. We
heard the chatter of the daws around the weathercocks, the
crowing of cocks, the call of cuckoos, the horns of hunters
riding out from the town gate to hawk the heron. All
mounted up to us in harmonies so quaint that the whole
world seemed to be merely a brilliant patchwork; the effect
was as heady as wine drunk fasting.
Far below lay the Marina, edged with little towns with
walls and watch towers dating from Roman times; high
above them rose age-grey cathedrals and Merovingian
castles. Between came rich villages with clouds of pigeons
circling round their roofs, and mills green with moss
towards which in the autumn one saw the asses being driven
with their loads of corn. Then castles again nestling on
high crags, and monasteries where the light was mirrored in
the carp ponds round their walls.
When from our lofty perch we looked down on the
structures man had raised for his protection and his pleasure,
to store his food or to contain his gods, the centuries fused
before our eyes into a single span. And, as if the graves
had opened, the dead rose up invisibly. They are always
near to us when we look upon a land we love, in which an
ancient culture has its roots; and just as their heritage lives
on in stone and tillage, their ancient spirit rules over meadow
and field.
At our backs towards the north ran the marches of the
Campagna, separated from the Marina by the wall of
marble cliffs. In spring its fringe of meadows stretched like
a flowered carpet in which the herds browsed and seemed
to swim in coloured foam. At midday they rested in the
cool and muddy shade of the alders and aspens, which
formed leafy islands on the wide plain, from which often
there rose the smoke of herdsmen's fires. Scattered far
apart one could see the big farms with their stalls and barns,
and the high poles of the wells which feed the drinking
troughs.
Here in summer it was hot and misty, and in autumn,
when the snakes couple, the whole stretch was like a deserted
steppe-lonely and parched. At its farther border the
ground changed to marshland with thick growth in which
there was no sign of human habitation. Only duck·
hunters' huts of coarse reeds rose here and there beside the
dark moorland water; in the alders were concealed perches
built like crows' nests. This was already land where the
writ of the Chief Ranger ran, and soon the ground began to
rise in which the forest had its roots. From its fringes
there projected into the pasturage long sickle-shaped thickets
which in the people's speech were called " horns."
Such was the kingdom which offered itself to the view,
and by which the Marble Cliffs were encircled. From their
heights we saw life developing on ancient ground like the
vines, orderly and well trained, and bearing fruit. And
we saw its frontiers too: the mountains where lofty freedom
but not plenty found its home among the barbarian peoples,
and towards the north the swamps and dark recesses where
bloody tyranny lurked.
Often, aloft on the crags, we reflected how much labour
it costs before the grain is harvested and the bread baked,
and how much too before the spirit can stretch its wings
in safety.

IX

IN prosperous times little attention was paid to the feuds
which had always been a feature of life in the Campagna;
rightly so, for they ever recur where there are herds and
pasture lands. Every spring there were quarrels over the
still unbranded cattle, and, whenever droughts began,
fights at the water-holes. The great steers, too, with
ringed nostrils, which troubled the dreams of the women by
the Marina, would break into strange herds and chase them
to the Marble Cliffs, at the foot of which one saw their
bleaching horns and bones.
Above all, the race of herdsmen was wild and unruly.
From the beginning of time their calling had been handed
down from father to son, and when they sat round their
fires in ragged dress with rude weapons of stone or wood one
saw how different they were from the race which cultivates
the vineyard slopes. Their way of life belonged to the
times when house and plough and loom were still unknown,
and nomads' shelters were constructed as the wanderings of
the herds required. To this their customs corresponded-
their rough sense of justice and equality based on tali on law.
So every killing fanned long-burning fires of revenge, and
there were tribal and family feuds of which the origins were
unknown, and which nevertheless yearly extorted their
tribute of blood. '' Campagna cases '' was the name given
by the lawyers of the Marina to uncivilised and tangled suits
brought before them; and they did not summon the herdsmen to the forum, but sent out commissioners into their
territory. In other districts justice was dispensed by
the tenants of the magnates and lords of the manor
living on their great cattle farms. In addition there were
free herdsmen, rich in stock, like the Bataks and the
Belovars.
Contact with this rough race revealed their good qualities;
among these was conspicuous the hospitality which surrounded everyone who sat by their fires. So it came about
that one might see in their circles the faces of town-dwellers,
for the Campagna offered immediate shelter to all who had
to quit the Marina under a cloud. Here one met debtors
threatened with arrest and scholars who had planted too
shrewd a blow at a drinking party, all in company with
renegade monks and a crew of vagabonds. Young people,
too, who longed for freedom and pairs of lovers willingly
betook themselves to the Campagna.
So at all seasons a web of secrecy was spun which extended beyond the boundaries oflaw and order. The nearness of the Campagna, in which justice took less constitutional forms, was an advantage to many whose affairs had
taken an unfavourable turn. Most returned when time and
good friends had worked in their favour, and others disappeared into the woods never to be seen again. But after
Alta Plana what had once been the normal course of affairs
took an unhealthy turn. Thus in exhausted bodies corrup-
tion will set in by way of wounds which a sound man would
scarcely notice.
The first symptoms, therefore, were not recognised.
When rumours of disturbances poured in from the Campagna it seemed that the old blood feuds had become more
bitter, but soon it was noticeable that they were obscured
by new and unusual traits. The core of rough honour which
had tempered violence was destroyed, and mere crime
remained. One had the impression, too, that spies and
agents from the forests had penetrated the clans to use them
for unknown purposes. In this way the old forms lost their
sense. For example, there had never been any doubt when
a corpse was found at a cross-roads, its tongue split by a
dagger, that here a traitor had fallen to the vengeance of his
trackers. After the war, too, one might stumble on such
corpses, but now it was common knowledge that these were
the victims of criminal murder.
Similarly the tribes had always levied blackmail, but the
landowners had paid it gladly, regarding it as a sort of
premium on the well-being of their grazing herds. But
now the tribute grew unbearably, and when the farmer saw
the demand letter flutter white on a post he had to pay or
flee the country. Many had, indeed, thought of resistance, but in such cases plunderings had occurred which
were apparently conducted according to a considered
plan.
Then a rabble led by men of the forests would appear at
night before the farmsteads, and were entrance denied,
broke down the gates. These bands were also known as
" glow-worms," for they attacked the doors with beams
hung with small lights. Others derived the name from their
habit, once they had won ingress, of torturing the people
with fire to learn where the silver was hidden. At all
events, there were tales which laid at their door the lowest
and basest acts of which man is capable. To these belonged
their method of instilling fear by packing the corpses of
murdered men in chests or barrels; such gruesome consignments were then delivered to the relatives by transports
coming from the Campagna.
Far more menacing still was the fact that all these crimes,
which set the land in an uproar and cried for justice, went
almost entirely unavenged. It even came to such a pass
that nobody dared any longer speak of them openly, and it
became clear how weak the law was in comparison to
anarchy. It is true that shortly after the pillaging began the
commissioners had been sent out, accompanied by pickets,
but they had found the Campagna already in open revolt,
so that there could be no question of negotiation. Now
in order to take strong measures the estates had to be convoked according to the constitution, for in countries which,
like the Marina, have a long legal tradition the course of
justice is not willingly abandoned.
Thereupon it became apparent that the men of the
Campagna already had their representatives in the Marina,
for returning citizens had either retained business connections with the herdsman or joined the clans by taking the
blood oath. This group, too, followed the change for evil,
particularly wherever order was already undermined.
So it came about that shady advocates sprang up who
defended the cause of injustice before the Bar, and in the
little harbour taverns the clansmen openly made their lairs.
At their tables sights were to be seen like those out at the
camp fires; there old herdsmen with untanned skins thrown
round their legs squatted beside officers who since Alta
Plana had idled on half-pay. There whoever among the
people from either side of the Marble Cliffs were malcontent
or greedy for change caroused and thronged the doors as if
in the dark interiors lay their headquarters.
It could not but add to the confusion that even sons of
notables and youths who believed that the hour of a new
freedom had dawned took part in this traffic. So, too, there
were men of letters who began to imitate the herdsmen's
songs, which up to now only the nurses from the Campagna
had been known to croon over the cradles. But now the
poets might be seen strolling in the Corso with rough cudgels
in their hands, and wearing shaggy skins instead of woollen
or linen raiment. In such circles it was the custom to scorn
the tillage of vine or corn and to see in the wild country
of the herdsmen the stronghold of the true, time-honoured
way of life. They are well known, the hare-brained and
somewhat murky ideas which bewitch the enthusiast, and
one might have laughed at them had it not come to open
sacrilege which passed the understanding of all who still had
kept their reason.

X

IN the Campagna where the meadow paths crossed the
grazing boundaries one often saw standing the little herdsmen's gods. These guardians of the marches were rudely
cut from stone or oak and even from a distance one guessed
their presence from the rancid smell they spread abroad.
For the offerings brought to them consisted of libations of
melted butter and fat from the entrails pushed aside by the
sacrificial knife. That was why one always saw round the
images black scars of fires in the green pastureland. Mter
their offering, the herdsmen kept a charred stick from the
fires with which to mark on the night of the solstice the
body of ev~ry creature that should bear young, whether
heifer or wife.
If on such a spot we met the young girls returning from
the milking they would draw their head-cloths over their
faces, and Brother Otho, who knew and loved the gods of
the garden, never passed by without doing mock homage to
the images. He held that they were of great antiquity, and
called them Jupiter's childhood companions.
Then, too, there was not far from the Flayer's Wood a
copse of weeping willows, in which stood the figure of a
steer with red nostrils, red tongue and red sexual organ.
It was a spot of ill-fame, one to which there clung
rumours of grisly rites.
But who could have believed that the butter- and fat-fed
gods who filled the udders of the cows would now begin to
be worshipped on the Marina ? Yet so it came about in
houses where offerings and their ritual had long been held
in mockery. Men who had deemed themselves strongminded enough to cut the links with the faith of their
fathers fell under the yoke and spell of barbarian idols. The
sight they offered in their blindness was more loathsome
than drunkenness at noon. Thinking to fly and boasting
of their powers, they grovelled in the dust.
It was a bad sign, too, that the spirit of disorder laid
hold upon the last rites of the dead. At all times the guild
of poets had been held in high honour on the Marina.
They passed for givers of largesse, and the gift of rhyming
was regarded as the source of plenty. That the vine
bloomed and bore fruit, that man and beast throve, that
the evil winds were calmed and joyous concord lived in the
hearts of men-all were ascribed to the melody that lives
in song and hymn. Of this the lowliest peasant was
convinced, just as he was that harmony has powers to
heal.
There lived no one so poor that the first and best fruits
of his garden did not go to the cabin of the thinker and the
hermitage of the poet. Thus whoever felt called upon to
serve the world in things spiritual could live at leisure-in
poverty, perhaps, but not in need. In the to-and-fro of life
the tillers of soil and the shapers of words found their
precept in the old saying: The best gifts of the gods are
unpaid for.
It is a sign of good times that in them the power of the
spirit is outwardly and visibly manifest. So it was here:
no festival in the changing year, in the litany or in the life of
man was possible without poetry. But particularly at
funeral services, after the corpse had been blessed, it fell to
the poet to pass judgment on the dead. It was his task to
cast a godlike glance over the departed life and praise it in
verse, like the diver prising the pearl from its shell.
From the beginnings of time there had been two measures
in which to honour the dead; of these the more usual was
the elegeion. The elegeion was held a fit offering to a
life led justly in sorrow and in joy such as is the lot of
common man. In tone it was a lament, yet it gave full
expression to that confidence which comforts the sorrowing
heart.
On the other hand there was the eburnum, which in
olden days was reserved for the slayers of monsters that
dwelt in the swamps and crags. The classical eburnum had
to be delivered with high style and noble joy; its peroration
was the Admiratio, during which a black eagle soared up
from a broken cage. As the times grew milder the eburnum
was granted also to those who were known as builders of
the state, or " optimates." The people had always known
in their hearts who belonged to this number, although as life
became more refined the images of their forefathers altered
too.
But now for the first time the day was seen when conflicts
broke out over the speeches delivered by the judges of
the dead. For with the leagues, the blood feuds of the
Campagna found their way into the towns. Like a pest
which finds virgin soil, hate grew apace. There were clashes
by night with ignoble weapons for no other reason than that
a hundred years before Wenzel had been struck down by
Jegor. But reason is nothing when passion blinds us. So
soon no night passed by but that the watch came upon dead
in the streets and in the houses, and many were found with
wounds unworthy of the sword-yes, even showing how
blind hate had mangled the fallen foe.
In these fights, which led to man-hunts, ambushes and
arson, the parties lost all control. Soon one had the
impression that they hardly regarded one another any
longer as human beings, and their speech was shot through
with words fit to be used only of vermin that must be harried
and stamped out with fire and sword. Only in their
opponents could they recognise murder; yet they themselves
vaunted of things which in the others they despised. While
one held the other's dead scarcely worthy of hasty burial
in the dead of night, their own were to be shrouded in
purple, the eburnum was to sound out and the eagle soar,
bearing to the gods a living image of the hero and prophet.
It is true that none of the great singers was prepared to
take part in such sacrilege even if offered untold wealth
in gold. Then were brought forward the harpists who accompany the dance at kermess festivals, and the blind zither
players, who before the tricliniums of the houses of joy
delight the drunken guests with songs of Venus' Scallopshell
or Hercules the Glutton. Thus warrior and bard were
worthy of each other.
But metre, as is known, is incorruptible. The fires of
destruction cannot reach its invisible pillars and portals.
So they were themselves duped who thought that offerings
of the worth of an eburnum could be bought and sold.
We attended only the first of these funeral rites, and saw
happen what we had awaited. The hireling who was to
tread the lofty fragile flaming arch of the poem began at
once to stammer and lost his thread. Then his speech
gained in fluency and turned to the base iambs of hate and
vengeance which spat their venom in the dust. During the
scene we saw the crowd in the red festal raiment which is
worn for the eburnum, and the magistrates and clergy too
in robes of state. Formerly when the eagle soared silence
reigned; this time there was an outburst of wild rejoicing.
At the sound sorrow gripped us, and many another too,
for we felt that the wholesome spirit of our ancestors had
abandoned the Marina.

XI
THERE were many other signs, too, which spelt downfall.
They were like a rash which appears, dies down and breaks
out again. From time to time life was shot through with
care-free days on which everything seemed to be as before.
Herein, above all, lay a masterly trait of the Chief
Ranger. He administered fear in small doses which he
. gradually· increased, and which aimed at crippling resistance. The role he played in the disorders which were so
finely spun in the heart of his wood~ wa~ that of a power
for order; for while his agents of lower rank, who had
established themselves in the clans, fostered anarchy, the
initiated penetrated into the civic offices and the magistracy, and there won the reputation of men of deeds who
would bring the mob to its senses. Thus the Chief Ranger
was like an evil doctor who first encourages the disease so
that he may practise on the sufferer the surgery he has in
mind.
It is true that among the magistrates there were some
clear-headed enough to see through the game, but they had
not the power to hinder it. On the Marina it had long been
the custom to maintain mercenary troops, and so long as
things were orderly they were good servants. But now that
the disturbances were stretching up to its banks everyone
tried to win over the soldiery, and Biedenhorn, their commander, grew overnight to great importance. It could suit
him but little to check a turn in affairs which was so favourable to himself; on the contrary, he began to make difficulties
and held back the troops as if they were capital that bore
good interest. He had taken up position with them in an
old fort, the Barbican, and there he lived like a mouse in
cheese. Thus in the vault of one of the great towers he
had set up a drinking-hall where he sat at his ease over his
cups behind the fortress walls. In the bright glass of the
window his coat of arms could be seen-two wassail horns
with the motto:
'' Come troll
The bowl!"
In this retreat he took up his abode, full of that jovial
cunning of the North which it is so easy to under-estimate,
and there gave audience to the plaintiffs with an air of wellfeigned concern. In his cups he was zealous for justice and
order-but he was never seen to come to deeds. Besides,
he treated not only with the clans, but with the captains of
the Chief Ranger too, plying them with meat and drink at
the expense of the Marina. With these forest captains he
played the communities an evil trick. Making out that
he was in need of aid, he entrusted to them and their woodland crew the surveillance of the country districts. Thereby
terror had complete sway under the mask of order.
At first the forces under the captains were modest and
employed singly as gendarmes. This was true in particular
of the Huntsmen whom we often saw patrolling round the
Rue-Garden Hermitage, and who, alas ! would also sup in
Lampusa's kitchen. These were the men of the brushwood
of whom one reads in books, small, with eyes that blinked
against the light, and with dark beards hanging from their
gaunt cheeks; their speech was an argot that drew upon the
lowest in all languages and was a compound of blood and
scum.
We found that they were equipped with paltry weaponswith nooses, snares and curved daggers which they called
" blood-letters." Then, too, they were generally hung
about with the pelts of vermin. For instance, they gave
chase to the great lizards on our stairway in the Marble
Cliffs, catching them with the old trick of a fine snare
moistened with spittle. The beautiful creatures had often
delighted our eyes with their golden-green and dazzling
white-starred skin, particularly when we caught sight of them
in the bramble bushes which made a red curtain on the cliffs.
The foreign courtesans whom the Ranger kept in his courts
set great store by the skins, and his fops and dandies had
fashioned from them girdles and dainty wallets. So the
green wonders were mercilessly pursued and treated with
evil cruelty. These torturers did not even trouble to kill
them, but robbed the skin from the still living animals and
let them fall headlong from the cliffs like white ghosts and
end their days in torment at their foot. In base hearts
there lies deep-seated a burning hatred of beauty.
Such carrion-catching ploys were a mere pretext for
spying about farmstead and house to see whether in them
some spark of freedom was yet alive. Then the cases of
banditry which were familiar from the Campagna recurred
and the inhabitants were led away under cover of darkness
and mist. Thence no one returned; and what we heard
rumoured among the people of their fate reminded us of the
carcasses of the lizards lying stripped below the cliffs, and
filled our hearts with sadness.
Then the Foresters too made their appearance, and were
often to be seen at work on the vineyard slopes and hills.
They seemed to be surveying the land anew, for they had
holes dug in the ground and set up rods with runic signs and
animal totems. The way they moved about in field and
meadow was even more alarming than the Huntsmen's was,
for they traversed old tilth as if it were moorland, heeding
neither bridle path nor boundary. Nor did they salute the
holy images. Thus one saw them cross and recross the
rich farmland as if it were desert, uninhabited and barren.
From such signs one could guess what was to be awaited
from the Ranger lurking in his forests. He who hated the
plough, the corn, the vine and the animals tamed by man,
who looked with distaste on spacious dwellings and a free
and open life, set little store by lordship over such plenty.
Only then did his heart stir when moss and ivy grew green
on the ruins of the towns, and under the broken tracery of
vaulted cathedrals the bats fluttered in the moon. His
forest would spread until the great trees bathed their roots
in the Marina, and above their crowns the silver hercn
would meet the black stork on the wing from the oak thickets
to the swamps. In the dark soil of the vineyard slopes the
tusked boar would root, and on the cloister ponds the
beaver circle, while in the dusk the game came down to
water along the hidden paths. And on the edges of the forest
where the trees could find no root in the swamps the snipe
would flicker in the early year, and in the fall the thrushes
come seeking the red berries.

XII
THEN, too, the Chief Ranger loved neither farmsteads nor
poets' hermitages, nor any spot where men spend their
days in quiet thought. The best among the dwellers on his
domains were yet another race of uncouth varlets whose
greatest joy in life was to track the game and bring it to bay.
Father and son, they were his men. These were his masters
of woodcraft, while the huntsmen of lower rank whom we
saw on the Marina hailed from strange villages which the
,master maintained in the forest depths.
Fortunio, who knew the Ranger's dominions best, had
described them to me as warrens of hovels grey with age,
their walls built from mud and wattle, and the pointed roofs
covered with yellowing moss. There, free as the birds, a
brood of darkness had their cavern homes. When this
folk was on its wanderings a sect always remained behind in
their nests and grottos, like the last grounds one leaves in a
jar of spice to preserve its odour.
Into these forest lands had taken flight all who in peace
or war had escaped extinction-Runs, Tartars, gipsies,
Albigensians and heretical sects of all sorts. With them had
joined company fugitives from the provost-marshal and the
hangman, scattered remnants of the great robber bands
from Poland and from the Lower Rhine, and women-folk
whose only trade was with their tail, trulls the beadles had
driven from the doors.
Here, too, the magicians and witch doctors who had
escaped the scaffold had set up their wizards' kitchens; by
the initiated, by Venetians and alchemists these unknown
villages were reckoned among the sanctuaries of the black
art. In Fortunio's hands I had seen a manuscript from the
pen of Rabbi Nilufer-the same who, driven from Smyrna,
had on his wanderings been a guest among the woods. In
his writings one saw world history mirrored as in muddy
pools on the banks of which water-rats nest. Here was to
be found the key to many a murky intrigue: thus rumour
ran that after his banishment from Perouard Master Villon
had found shelter in one of these pinewood warrens, in
which along with many another shady crew the Coquillards
had made their base. Later they flitted over into Burgundy,
but here they had always a haven of refuge.
Whatever elements from the outside world went underground in the forest multiplied ten- and a hundred-fold in its
womb. This was the breeding-place of the mean huntsmen
who offered themselves in house and field as destroyers of
vermin-according to Nilufer, the Pied Piper of Hamelin
had disappeared here with the children. But from the
woods came too the dainty deceivers who appear with coach
and lackeys and are to be found even at the courts of noble
counts. Thus from the forest a strain of evil blood flowed
into the veins of the world. Where there were killings or
thuggery one of the shady crew was always by, nor were
they missing from the minuets that poor devils dance on the
gallows hill with the wind for partner.
To all these the Ranger was lord and master, to be kissed
on the hem of his red hunting coat or on the calf of his boot
when he sat in the saddle. For his part he dealt with them
at his pleasure, and from time to time had a dozen or two
strung up like scarecrows on the trees if they seemed to
spawn too abundantly. Otherwise they might lodge and
feast on his lands as they pleased.
As protector of the land of vagabonds the Ranger enjoyed
in the world outside hidden and far-spread powers. Whereever the structures raised by the ordered life of man began
to crumble, his brood sprang up like mushroom spawn.
They swarmed and burrowed wherever retainers refused
service to their hereditary masters, where crews mutinied on
storm-tossed barks, where warrior kings were left deserted
on stricken fields.
The Chief Ranger alone was well served by these powers.
When he received the Mauretanians in his town house there
surrounded him a swarm of henchmen-green-liveried
huntsmen, red-coated lackeys in their black pumps, majordomos and confidants of all sorts. At such feasts could be
felt something of the pleasant ease which the Ranger loved
in his woods; the broad hall was warm and gleamed with
lights-but the light was not that of the sun, but of flame
and the glint of gold in dark caves.
Like a diamond gleaming out from the glowing dross of
an alchemist's crucible, there grew up from time to time in
the forest warrens women of surpassing beauty. Like all
people of the woods, they were serfs of the Ranger, and on
his travels they rode in litters in his train. When the
young Mauretanians were his guests in the little houses
before the town gates, and he was of a good humour, it
would come about that he displayed his odalisques as others
Would their jewels. He would call them into the billiard-
room where the company had collected to drink spiced wine
after the heavy meal, and set out the balls for them to play.
Then one would see in the red light of the lamps their unveiled bodies bowed over the green table bending slowly and
turning in the movements of the game. In this connection
there were tales from his woods that were grosser yet-of
how after long chase after fox or bear he feasted on the
sward surrounded by trophies of war and the chase, and
sat in state on his high chair gory with slaughtered game.
Such women served him too as the finest of lures whereever he was busied in affairs of the world. All who drew
near the treacherous blossoms which had sprung from
the swamps fell under the spell that brings abasement in its
train. In our Mauretanian time we saw many succumb to
whom a great destiny had beckoned; for it is the lofty spirit
that first becomes entangled in such weeds.
This was the stock destined to settle the land when the
Ranger had won complete mastery over the Marina, like
crab apple, wild poppy and henbane, replacing noble fruits
in war-sacked gardens. Then instead of the giver of wine
and bread the strange gods would be raised up-Diana for
one, transformed in the marshes to a savage goddess of
fertility, and hung about with grape-like clusters of golden
breasts; along with her would come terrible idols which
strike fear with claws, with horns and with tusks, and demand sacrifices unworthy of man.

XIII
was how things stood in the seventh year after Alta
Plana, and to that campaign we traced back the evils that
cast their shadow over the land. It is true that we had
both taken part in it and mixed in the melee at the entrance
to the passes in the ranks of the Purple Horse, but we had
done so only to discharge our bounden duty, which was to
strike and not to grope after rights and wrongs. But since
the right arm is more obedient than the heart, our spirit was
with the people who defended their hereditary freedom so
gallantly against great odds. In their victory we saw more
than the fortune of arms.
Then, too, we had made hospitable friends in Alta Plana,
for before the passes young Ansgar, the son of the Master
of the Bodan Alps, had fallen into our hands and had
exchanged gifts with us. From the terrace we saw the
Bodan Alp in the far distance like a blue patch hidden deep
in the sea of ice-clad peaks, and we drew a sense of security
from the thought that in their valley home we would be
received like brothers at any hour with bed and board.
After we had returned to our homeland far in the North
and locked up our weapons again in the armoury, we had a
mind to lead a life untouched by violence, and thought of
our old studies. We reported to the Mauretanians for
honourable discharge, and were entered in the roll of retired
veterans with the right to wear the black, red and white
ribbon. We would certainly not have lacked the courage
and powers of judgment to climb to high rank in the order.
But we had never acquired the faculty of looking down on
the sufferings of the weak and anonymous like senators
glancing down into the arena from their seats of privilege.
But what is to be done if the weak deny the laws prescribed,
and in their blindness pull back with their own hands the bars
and bolts which have been put to for their protection? We
could not, therefore, altogether criticise the Mauretanians,
for right and unright were now ravelled together; men of
firm courage tottered and the time was ripe for terror. In
this respect man-made order is like the universe-from
time to time it must plunge into the flames to be born
anew.
We were right, therefore, to keep clear of affairs in which
no honour was to be won, and to return peacefully to the
Marina; there by the sunny banks we would devote ourselves to flowers, those fleeting coloured signals which in
their secret painted script express the unchangeable order of
things, and are like timepieces that never fail to tell the hour.
But house and garden had scarcely been set in order and
the work advanced so far that its first fruits were promised
when the flames of arson began to flicker up from the
Campagna behind the Marble Cliffs. When later the unrests laid hold upon the Marina we were compelled to keep
ourselves informed, so as to be acquainted with the nature
and extent of the threat.
In the Campagna dwelt old Belovar, who was often to be
found in Lampusa's kitchen. He came with herbs and
rare roots which his women-folk dug out from the rich earth
of the pastures, and which Lampusa dried for her drinks
and potions. Thus we had struck up a friendship and
emptied many a can of beer with him on the bench which
stood on the court before the kitchen. He could be trusted
to know all the names the country-folk give to flowers, of
which they can distinguish a great number; in order to
enrich our glossary we willingly listened to his lore. He
knew, too, the spots where rare varieties were to be foundthe flower which blooms among the scrub and has a goatlike smell, the orchid with a lip shaped like a human body,
and a ragwort with flowers like panther's eyes. So it came
about that we often asked for his company when we collected specimens behind the Marble Cliffs. There he knew
every path and trail up to the edge of the forest; but, more
important still, when the herdsmen were hostile, we found
sure protection in his company.
· This aged man embodied the best that the pasture-lands
had to offer-something quite different from the picture
dreamt up by the mincing dandies who thought to have
found the ideal man among the herdsmen and sang his
praises in rose-water rhymes. Old Belovar was seventy
years old, tall and spare, with a white beard that contrasted
sharply with his black hair. Of his features his dark eyes
were the most striking, sharp like falcon's, spying out the
distance and embracing the whole landscape in their sweep;
but when he was enraged they had a wolfish glint. In his
ears he wore golden rings, round his head a red scarf, and
round his waist a red girdle which left bare the pommel and
point of his dagger. In the haft of this trusty weapon were
cut eleven notches varnished over with dyer's red.
When we came to know him the old man had just taken
his third wife, a lass of sixteen years, whom he kept strictly
in order and beat into the bargain when he was in his cups.
If he came to speak of the blood feuds his eyes would light
up, and we saw that so long as it beat the heart of the foe
drew him like a mighty magnet. We saw, too, that the fame
of his vendettas had made him a singer like many more in
the Campagna. There when they drank by the fire to the
honour of the herdsmen's gods it often happened that one
would rise from the circle and in flowing words laud the
mortal stroke with which he laid his enemy low.
With time we took to the old man and were glad to see
him, just as one puts up with a faithful hound although the
spirit of the wolf still glows within him. Even if in Belovar
there blazed primitive fires, yet there was nothing ignoble in
the man, and therefore he hated the powers of darkness that
pushed forward out of the forest into the Campagna. We
soon saw, too, that his rude spirit was not without virtues;
in his trusty heart there burned a warmer flame than is
known in towns. Thus to him friendship was no mere
sentiment, but something which blazed as spontaneously
and as fiercely as hate. We, too, had caught an inkling of
this when Brother Otho, years before, had turned the tables
in open court during a knotty case in which the consuls of
the Marina had ensnared the old man. Then he began to
take us to his heart, and even when he saw us from afar his
eyes gleamed.
Soon we had to be on our guard not to utter a wish when
when he was near, for he would have wormed his way into
the Griffon's nest and caught its young to give us joy. Like
a trusty weapon that is never out of one's hand, he was at
our disposal at any hour. In him we discovered the power
we enjoy when a man gives himself to us body and soul, a
power which dies out with the coming of an ordered way of
life.
So through this friendship alone we felt that we were
well shielded from the dangers which threatened from the
Campagna. Many a night when we sat silent over our work
in library and herbarium the flames of sacked houses would
light up the edge of the cliffs. Often such incidents took
place so close by that when the north wind blew the sounds
were borne over to us. Then we heard the blows of the
battering-ram pounding on the door of the courtyard, and
the pitiful lowing of the cattle in their flaming byres. The
wind carried across to us, too, the low hum of voices and the
note of the bells sounding in the private chapels, and when
all this died away we strained our ears long into the night.
But we knew that no ill threatened our Hermitage so long
as the old herdsman and his wild tribe camped on the
steppe.

XIV

ON the other side of the cliffs towards the Marina the
case was different; here we could count upon the support of
a Christian monk, Father Lampros, from the cloister of
Maria Lunaris, whom the people know and venerate as Our
Lady of the Crescent. In these two men, herdsman and
monk, there came to light that diversity which native soil
produces in men no less than in plants. In the old avenger
of blood feuds there lived the spirit of the pasture-lands,
which have never been cut by the iron of a ploughshare; in
the priest, that of the vineyard loam, which in the course of
centuries and through the labour of man's hands has
become as fine as the sand of an hourglass.
It was from Upsala that we had first heard of Father
Lampros, and that through Ehrhardt, who was keeper of
the herbarium there and supplied us with material for our
work. At that time we were occupied with the study of
plant formation-how they arrange their parts like radii
within a circle, the way in which they form round an axis
which is the basis of all organic patterns, and, lastly, how
crystallisation gives meaning to growth as the clock face
does to the moving finger. Ehrhardt now informed us that
we had living amongst us on the Marina the author of the
magnificent work on the symmetry of fruits-Phyllobius, a
name which hid the person of Father Lampros. This news
awoke our curiosity, and, having written the monk a brief
note, we visited him in the cloister of Our Lady of the
Crescent.
The cloister lay so close by that from the Hermitage
one could see the tip of its spire. The church was a place
of pilgrimage, and the way ran through gentle meadows on
which ancient trees bloomed so richly that scarcely a speck
of green was visible through the white blossom. At this
hour of the morning not a soul was to be seen in the
gardens, through which there blew a cool wind from the sea,
yet so potently did the blossom work upon the senses that
we seemed to traverse magic gardens. Soon we saw the
cloister lying before us on its hilltop site with its church
smiling in its loveliness. Even from a distance we could
hear the drone of the organ accompanying the hymn with
which the pilgrims adored the icon.
As the porter led us through the church we, too, did
reverence to the miraculous image. We saw the royal lady
on a throne of clouds, her feet resting as on a stool on a
thin crescent moon, its sickle fashioned like a face gazing
earthwards. Thus divinity was pictured as power dominating over mutability; in this form she was honoured as the
goddess who provides for and dispenses to mankind.
In the inner cloister we were received by the circulator,
who led us into the library which was Father Lampros's
charge. Here he spent the hours laid aside for work, and
here, surrounded by tall folios, we often sat and talked.
The first time that we stepped through its doors we saw the
Father, who had just come in from the garden, standing in
the quiet room with a spray of gladiolus in his hand. He
still wore his wide-brimmed hat, and on his white cloak
played the bright light which fell through the clerestory
windows.
We found in him a man of some fifty years, moderate of
stature and finely built. As we drew near to him fear laid
hold on us, for the face and hands of this monk seemed to
us unusual and disturbing. I might almost say that they
appeared like those of a corpse, and it was difficult to
believe that there was life-blood in them. They seemed to
be modelled from soft wax with this effect, that the play of
the features came only slowly to the surface and was more
an illumination of the face than a movement of muscles.
There was something very formal and symbolic, too, in the
way he lifted his hand as he spoke-a favourite gesture.
And yet this body had a delicate grace which seemed to have
pervaded it like a breath animating a puppet. Nor did he
lack joviality.
As we exchanged greetings, Brother Otho remarked in
praise of the icon that in it he saw united on a higher plane
the graces of Vesta and of Fortuna; thereupon the monk
lowered his eyes to the ground with a courteous gesture and
then raised them again with a smile. It seemed as if, after
reflecting on it, he took the words as a votive offering.
From this and many other traits we learned that Father
Lampros avoided argument; his silences were more effective
than his words. So, too, in the science of which he was
counted among the masters, he took no part in the squabbles
of the schools. It was his firm belief that each theory in
natural history represents a contribution towards genesis,
for the human spirit in every age conceives the creation
anew; in each interpretation lives no more truth than in a
leaf that unfolds to fade. That was why he called himselfwith that rare mixture of modesty and pride that marked his
nature-Phyllobius," he who lives with the leaves."
That Father Lampros did not willingly contradict was
another sign of the courtesy which was so finely developed
in his nature. Since at the same time he had the upper hand
intellectually, he contrived to accept the speaker's words and
return them to him with an expression of agreement which
raised them to a higher plane. It was thus he returned the
greeting of Brother Otho, and therein lay not only the
goodness of spirit which the clergy acquire in the course
of the years, and mature like a noble wine-there was
courtliness, too, such as is bred in noble houses, and endows
its offshoots with a second and more subtle nature. There
was also an element of pride in it; for a ruling spirit has
its own judgment and pays no heed to common opinion.
It was said that Father Lampros sprang from an ancient
Burgundian house, but of the past he never spoke. From
his secular life he had retained a signet ring with a red
cornelian, on which was cut a griffon's wing with under
it as motto the words, '' I bide my time.'' Therein, too,
were betrayed the two poles of his nature-modesty and
pride.
Soon we were frequent visitors to the cloister of Our
Lady of the Crescent, and passed the time in garden or
library. Thus our little Flora became far richer than before;
for Father Lampros had been collecting for years by the
Marina, and we never left him without a bundle of mounted
specimens annotated in his own hand and each a tiny work
of art. Our association with him was also favourable to
our work on the axis pattern of flowers, for it means much
for a project if from time to time one can weigh it up in the
company of a good brain. In this connection we gained the
impression that Father Lampros, unobtrusively and without
in any way coveting a share in authorship, was taking part
in our work. Not only did he possess a great knowledge
of phenomena, but knew, too, how to communicate those
supreme moments of experience in which the true meaning
of our own work runs through us like a lightning flash.
One morning, for instance, he led us to a bank of flowers
where the cloister gardener had been early at work hoeing;
over one spot was spread a red cloth. He remarked that
here he had spared from the hoe a plant that would delight
our eyes; but when he withdrew the cloth we saw nothing
more than a young growth of that type of plantain which
Linnreus called Majora, and which is to be found on every
path that the foot of man ever trod. But when we bent
down over it and scrutinised it carefully, it seemed to us of
unusual size and regularity. Its circumference was a green
circle divided off by the oval leaves which patterned the
fringe with their points; in the centre rose in its brilliance the
focal point of growth. It formed something as fresh and
tender in its living tissues as it was indestructible in the
genius of its symmetry. Then a shudder ran over us; we
felt how closely united in us were the life wish and the death
wish. When we raised ourselves up we looked into Father
Lampros's smiling face. He had allowed us to partake of a
mystery.
We had all the more reason to prize the moments of
leisure which the Father set aside for us since his was a
name revered among the Christians, and many sought him
out in the hope of counsel and comfort. Yet he was also
loved by those who put their faith in the twelve gods, and
by the men from the North where the ancient deities are
worshipped in spacious temples and thickets set apart.
To them, too, when they visited him, he gave from the same
source of strength, but no longer in priestly forms. Brother
Otho, who knew many shrines and mysteries, often marked
as the thing most to be wondered at in this spirit his ability
to combine a high degree of knowledge with the observance
of a strict rule. Brother Otho held that dogma accompanies
spirituality in its successive stages of refinement: it is like a
robe which during the ascent of the first steps is shot with
gold and purples, but with each step acquires a quality
which renders it invisible to our eyes, until gradually the
pattern dissolves in light.
Because of the tribute of confidence paid to Father Lampros by all the forces at work on the Marina, the course of
events there held no secrets from him. He had a clearer
view of the game than any other, and thus it seemed strange
to us that his monastic life was unaffected by it. Rather
it appeared that his spirits rose and brightened with every
step which brought the danger nearer.
We often discussed this over our fire of vine-cuttings in
the Hermitage, for in times of threat such personalities
tower above the weak herd. Sometimes we asked ourselves
if to him ruin seemed already too far advanced for cure, or
whether modesty and pride prevented him from joining in
party strife with word or deed. But Brother Otho best
summed up the situation by saying that, for such natures as
his, destruction had no terrors, and that they were so constituted as to pass into the fiery furnace as if through the
portals of their father's house. Of us all, perhaps he alone,
deep in his dreams behind the cloister walls, was in complete
contact with reality.
However that may be, if Father Lampros scorned his own
safety he was constant in his solicitude on our account.
Often notes would come, which he signed Phyllobius,
advising us strongly to make an excursion to one spot or
another to find a rare flower just then in bloom. Then we
surmised that at a certain hour he wished to be sure that
we were far away, and acted accordingly. Probably he
chose this method since he learned much under inviolable
seals. It struck us, too, that if we were not in residence at
the Hermitage his messengers consigned these letters through
Erio, but not through Lampusa.

XV
WHEN the tide of destruction raged more furiously round
the Marble Cliffs memories awoke in us of our Mauretanian times, and we weighed up the possibility of a solution
through force. On the Marina the rival powers were still
so evenly balanced that a small force would tip the scales;
for so long as the clans fought among themselves and
Biedenhorn held back undecided with his mercenaries, the
Chief Ranger had only insignificant numbers at his disposal.
We pondered whether to give chase to the huntsmen by
night with Belovar and his tribe, and to string up the torn
bodies of each one that fell into our net at the cross-roads;
thus we would speak to the knaves from the forest villages
in the only speech they understood. When we drew up such
plans the old warrior made his broad falchion leap in its
sheath for joy and pressed us to whet the hunting spears and
starve the hounds until their red tongues lolled to the
ground at the scent of blood. Then we too felt the power
of the instinct run through our limbs like a flash.
But when we discussed the situation more thoroughly in
the herbarium or library our decision was strengthened to
resist with spiritual forces alone. After Alta Plana we had
discovered-so we believed-that there are weapons stronger
than those which cut or stab; yet from time to time, like
children, we fell back on that earlier world in which terror
rules supreme. We did not yet know the full measure of
man's power.
In this respect our commerce with Father Lampros was
most valuable to us. No doubt our own hearts would have
led us to a decision in accordance with the state of mind in
which we had returned to the Marina; yet at such turningpoints in our life a third person aids us. The presence
of a good master reveals to us our true desires and enables
us to be ourselves. His noble image lives deep in our heart
because in him we first discern that of which we are
capable.
Thus a strange period began for us by the Marina.
While evil flourished like mushroom spawn in rotten wood,
we plunged deeper into the mystery of flowers, and their
chalices seemed larger and more brilliant than before.
But, above all, we continued our study of language, for in
the word we recognised the gleaming magic blade before
which tyrants pale. There is a trinity of word, liberty and
spirit.
I can claim that our work prospered. Many a morning
we woke in high spirits and savoured on our tongues the
clean taste that accompanies perfect health. Then we would
find no difficulty in putting names to things, and moved
about in the Hermitage as if its rooms were magnetically
charged. As we passed through the apartments and the
garden we felt a slight headiness and exaltation, and
from time to time we laid <:Jur leaves of notes upon the
chimney.
On such days when the sun stood high we would make our
way to the summit of the Marble Cliffs. Stepping over the
dark hieroglyphs of the lance-head vipers on the snake-path,
we· began to ascend the bright gleaming steps of the rock
staircase. From the highest peak of the cliffs, which rose
dazzling in the midday sun and cast its brilliance to distant
horizons, we looked long upon the land and sought out
some sign of its salvation in every ridge and fold .. Then
the scales seemed to fall from our eyes, and we caught something of its imperishable splendour, which lived on like an
image in poetry. It was with joy that we felt the certainty
come over us that destruction finds no place in the elements,
and that its seeming power moves on the surface of life
like a swirling ghostly mist which cannot withstand the
sun.
And we felt: if only we could live in the indestructible
cells, we would pass freely through every phase of destruction as if through an open door leading from one hall of
state to others yet more magnificent.
Often, when we stood on the summit of the Marble Cliffs,
Brother Otho would say that this was the true meaning of
life-to recapitulate creation in what is ephemeral, like the
child imitating in play his father's work. This, he held,
gave meaning to seed and begetting, to building and ordered
life, to image and poetry-that in them the master work
reveals itself as if in a mirror of many-coloured glass which
soon must break.

XVI

So we think back with pleasure to our days of pride. But
we must not pass over in silence those others during which
dejection had the upper hand. In our hours of weakness
destruction appears to us in terrifying forms, like the images
one sees in the temples of the Furies.
Therefore there dawned for us many a grey morning on
which we wandered aimlessly through the Hermitage and
mournfully meditated in herbarium and library. Then we
would make to the shutters and read by lamplight yellowed
documents and manuscripts which once had been our companions on our constant travels. We opened old letters
and turned over the pages of treasured books in search of
comfort-books which still diffu«ed the warmth of hearts
long turned to dust. In the same way the glow of earthly
summers lives on in dark veins of coal.
On days like these, when depression held sway, we shut
even the doors leading to the garden, for the fresh scent of
the flowers was too strong for our senses. In the evening
we would send little Erio to the rock kitchen so that
Lampusa might draw for him a jug of the wine that dates its
vintage from the year of the comet.
Then when the fire of vine-cuttings blazed on the hearth
we brought out the scent amphorre in accordance with a
custom we had adopted in Britain. It was our wont to
collect for them the flower petals in their seasons, and once
we had dried them to press them into wide-bellied jars. In
winter when we raised the coverings of the vessels the bright
flowers ha:d long since lost their colour and faded to the
shade of time-yellowed silk and pale purple stuffs. But
from this flowery aftermath there rose a wonderful perfume
like the memory of mignonette and rose gardens.
For these mournful feasts, too, we burned heavy tapers of
bees' wax. They were the remainder of the parting gift
from Deodat, the Proven<;:al knight, who had fallen long
since in the wild Taurus. By their shimmer we thought of
that noble friend and of the evening hours we had talked
away with him on the high walls of Rhodes while the sun
went down in the cloudless JEgean sky. As it sank, a
gentle breath of air was wafted up from the galley harbour
to the town. The sweet scent of the roses mixed with the
aroma of the fig-trees, and in the sea breeze there mingled
the essence of distant wood- and shrub-clad slopes. But
stronger than all, a rich, exquisite perfume mounted from
the earthworks in which camomile blossomed in soft yellow
masses.
With the scent rose the last honeyladen bees which flew
through loophole and embrasure to find the hives in the
little gardens. So often had their drunken humming
delighted us as we stood on the rampart of the Porta
d'Amboise that, when we parted, Deodat gave us a supply of
their wax to carry with us on our journey," so that you may
not forget the hum of the golden bees on the rose-grown
island.'' And, indeed, when we burned the candles there
came from their wicks a delicate aromatic scent of spices
and of the flowers that bloom in the gardens of the Saracens.
Then we emptied our glasses to old and distant friends
and to the lands of this world. When the winds of death
are abroad there is no denying that fear lays hold on us.
Then we wonder over our food and drink how much longer
a place will be laid for us at table. For the earth is fair.
In addition, a thought weighed heavily upon us which
always runs in the heads of men whose labours are on works
of the spirit. We had spent not a few years on the study
of plants and had spared neither oil nor pains. Ungrudgingly we had staked on it what we had inherited from our
father. Now the first ripe fruits were falling into our laps.
For there were the letters, the papers, the notebooks and
collections of flowers, the diaries of war years and years of
travel, and, above all, the material on language which we
had gathered together from many thousands of little fragments-stones in a mosaic of which the construction was
already far advanced. Of these manuscripts we had up
to now published only a small portion, for Brother Otho
held that casting pearls was misspent labour. We were
living in times during which the author is condemned to
solitude. Yet, even so, there was much we would gladly
have seen printed-not for the sake of the fame, which is
one aspect of illusion no less than the passing minute, but
because print bears the seal of finality and immutability, the
sight of which rejoices even the lonely heart. It is easier to
depart when things are in order.
When fearful over the fate of our papers we often thought
of Phyllobius and his good-humoured serenity. But we
led a different life, and one that was lived in the world.
To us it seemed unbearably hard that we should have to
part from the work into which we had spun something of
ourselves, which was the soil of our roots. To comfort us,
however, we had the mirror of Nigromontanus, which
always cheered us when we looked at it in such a mood.
It was part of the legacy of my old master and had this
property, that through it the rays of the sun were concentrated into an intense fire. Things set aflame by such
ardour passed into incorruptibility in a manner of which
Nigromontanus said that it was comparable only to the
purest distillation. He had learned this art in the cloisters
of the Far East, where the treasures of the dead are burned
to be their eternal retinue. In the same way he held that
anything kindled with the aid of this mirror was preserved
in the invisible more surely than behind doors of armour.
It was carried over by a flame which gave forth neither
smoke nor drossy glow into realms that lie beyond destruction. This Nigromontanus called the haven of annihilation,
and we resolved to seek it when the hour of ruin had come.
Therefore we prized the mirror as a key to loft~ halls, and
on such evenings would cautiously open the blue case which
enclosed it to rejoice in its sparkling. Then its disc of
limpid rock-crystal framed with an amber ring glanced in
the light of the candles. In this setting Nigromontanus had
engraved a motto in sun runes which was worthy of his
daring spirit:
Even should the earth burst like a cannon-shot,
Yet will our passing be infire and white-hot glow.
On the reverse were scratched in slender Pali script the
names of three royal widows who at the rites of the dead had
mounted the funeral pyre which Brahmins had set alight
with the aid of this same mirror.
Beside the mirror lay another little lamp, also cut from
rock-crystal and bearing the sign of Vesta. Its purpose
was to conserve the power of the fire for sunless hours or for
moments which demanded haste. It was with this lamp and
not with torches that the pyre was set alight beside Olympus
when Peregrinus Proteus, later called Phrenix, sprang into
the blaze before a mighty throng of people in order to make
himself one with the ether. The world knows of this man
and of his lofty deed only through the lying and distorted
account of Lucian.
Every good weapon has magic qualities; by merely
looking at it we feel ourselves wonderfully strengthened.
So it was with us and the mirror of Nigromontanus: its
radiance foretold to us that we would not perish entirely;
rather that the best in us was inaccessible to the lower
powers. Thus our highest gifts rest like eagles unassailable
in their eyries among the crystal air.
Father Lampros, it is true, would smile and say that
there are sarcophagi for the spirit as well. The hour of
destruction, he held, should, on the contrary, be the hour
of fullest life. A priest could speak thus who felt himself
drawn by death as if by far cataracts which catch the rainbows in their whirl of spray. But we were in the prime of
life and felt sorely in need of signs which even the human
eye can recognise. For us mortals the true and invisible
light shines out only in the multiple hues of the rainbow.

XVII

IT struck us that the days on which we were a prey to low
spirits were also days of mist, during which the countryside
lost its smiling look. Then the wreaths rose from the
forests like steam from witches' cauldrons and rolled forward over the Campagna in thick banks. They piled up
against the Marble Cliffs and, when the sun rose, pushed
lazy wisps down into the valley until soon the tops of the
spires had disappeared under the white vapour.
In such weather we felt ourselves robbed of our powers of
sight, and sensed evil stealing over the land as if under a
thick cloak. Therefore we did well to pass the day at
home by candlelight and over wine; and yet often an urge
came on us to go out. For we felt that not only did the
" glow-worms " ply their trade out there, but that somehow the country was at the same time changing its form, as
if its reality were diminishing. Therefore on misty days we
often resolved to make an excursion, and in that case sought
out the pasture-lands in particular. There was always, too,
some special plant which we aimed to add to our spoils.
We sought, if I may say so, to keep fast hold, in the midst of
chaos, on Linnreus's masterpiece which represents one of
the watch-towers from which the mind surveys the territory
of untamed growth. In this sense the plucking of a tiny
plant brought us great illumination.
Mingled with this there was something else which might
be described as a sense of shame-that we did not regard
the woodland breed as enemies. That is, we always
maintained that we were on the track of plants and not on
the warpath, and had therefore to avoid base forms of evil
as one goes out of the way of swamps and wild animals.
We did not attribute to the Lemur folk freedom of will.
Such powers must never be allowed to dictate the law to
us to such an extent that we lose sight of truth.
On such days the steps of the stairs leading up to the
Marble Cliffs were damp with mist, and cool winds drove
the wreaths of mist down over them. Although much had
altered in the pasture-lands, the old paths were still familiar
to us. They led through the ruins of rich farms about which
there now hung the smell of burnt-out fires. In the ruined
stalls we saw whitening the bones of the cattle, with here and
there a hoof or horn and the chain still round the beast's
neck. In the inner yard were piled the household goods as
the " glow-worms " had thrown them from the windows
before ransacking them. There lay the broken cradle between chair and table, and round them rose the green
nettles. Only seldom did we stumble on scattered groups of
herdsmen driving a few cattle, and these mere runts. Infectious airs had risen from the corpses rotting on the
pastures and caused the herds to die off in large numbers.
Thus the decline of order brings good fortune to none.
After an hour we came to old Belovar's farm, which was
almost the only one to call up memories of old times, for
it lay there rich in cattle and undamaged in its circle of green
meadows. The reason was that old Belovar was both free
herdsman and clan chief, and that from the beginning of the
troubles he had kept his property free of all roaming rabble;
therefore for long no huntsman or " glow-worm " had
ventured to pass by even in the distance. Those of them he
had laid low in open country or in the brushwood he
counted among his good works, and therefore did not even
cut a new notch in his dagger. He also insisted strictly
that all cattle which perished on his grounds should be
buried deep and covered with lime. So it came about
that the way to him took one through great herds of red an:)
dappled cattle, and that his house and barns stood out
fresh and bright from afar. The little gods, too, who
guarded his bounds always laughed at us with the gleam of
newly brought offerings.
So at times in war an outerwork will remain intact when
the keep has long since fallen. In this fashion the old man's
farm offered us a sort of centre of support. Here we could
rest and chat with him in safety while Milina, his young
wife, prepared for us in the kitchen wine with saffron or set
butter scones to bake. Then, too, the old man still had a
mother, who was almost a hundred years old and yet went
through house and courtyard as upright as a wand. We
liked to speak with the old dame, for she was well versed in
plants and knew sayings of such force as made the blood
run cold. And we had her lay her hands upon us when we
said farewell to go farther on our way.
Generally the old man wanted to accompany us, but we
were loath to have him with us. It seemed as if his presence
drew the woodsmen from the forest villages upon us just as
the dogs stir when the wolf roams round the outhouses.
That was certainly after the old man's heart; but we had
other things in mind. We went without weapons, without
followers, and drew over us light silver-grey cloaks to be the
better hid in the mist. In this wise we groped our way
cautiously forward through marsh and reeds towards the
horn-shaped thickets and the edge of the forest.

Very soon, when we left the pastures, we marked that the
feeling of violence was drawing closer and growing stronger.
The mist rolled in waves in the undergrowth and the reeds
whistled in the wind. Even the very ground under our feet
struck us as stranger and less familiar. But most disquieting of all was that our memory strayed. Then the
landscape_became utterly treacherous and vague and like the
country one sees in dreams. Thus there were always spots
which we recognised with certainty, but hard by them rose,
like islands emerging from the sea, new and mysterious
territories. To make out their true and accurate topography we required all our energies. We therefore did well
to avoid the adventures after which old Belovar so thirsted.
In this way we would walk and pass the hours in the
marsh- and reed-lands. If I do not describe the details of
our work it is because we were busied with things which lie
beyond speech and which therefore elude the spell that
words exert. But everyone will remember how his mind
has laboured in regions which he cannot portray, whether
it were in dreams or in deep thought. It seemed as if he
were groping for the right road in labyrinths or sought to
unravel the figures among the patterns of an optical illusion.
And often he awoke wonderfully strengthened. That is
where our best work takes place, and so it seemed to us, too,
that in our struggle speech was still inadequate, and that we
must penetrate into the depths of the dream if we were to
withstand the threat against us.
And when we stood alone among the swamps and reeds
the enterprise appeared to us like a fine game in which
each stroke calls forth its parry. Then the mists rolled up
denser than before, and yet at the same time there seemed to
grow within us the strength which creates order.

XVIII
YET on none of these expeditions did we neglect the flowers.
They told us our direction like a compass piloting through
unknown seas. Such was the case on that day when we
penetrated to the heart of the Player's Copse, one which we
later remembered only with horror.
In the morning when we saw the mists rising from the
forests up to the Marble Cliffs we had decided to go in
search of a red woodland orchid, and once Lampusa had
provided breakfast we soon set out on our way. This red
orchid is a flower which grows alone in woods and thickets
and bears the name " rubra," which Linnreus gave it, to
distinguish it from two paler species; yet it is rarer than either
of these. Since this plant loves spots where the thick wood
thins to a glade, Brother Otho held that it was perhaps best
to be sought at Koppels-Bleek. Thus the herdsmen called
an old clearing which was said to lie at the point where the
sickle-shaped Player's Copse joins the edge of the forest-a
place of ill repute.
At midday we were with old Belovar, but because we felt
the need of all our spiritual powers we did not sup there.
We drew the silver-grey cloaks over us, and since the old
dame had laid hands upon us without finding cause to stay
us, the old man parted with us reassured.
Immediately we had crossed his bounds a wild driving
mist set in which blotted out all shapes and forms and soon
led us astray. Thus we wandered in a circle in moss and
moor, halting now and then among groups of old willows or
beside turbid pools out of which the sedge grew high.
On this day the desolate scene seemed to have more life
in it, for in the mist we heard calls and thought to catch sight
of figures passing close by us in the fog, but without seeing
us. In this confusion we would certainly have missed the
way to Player's Copse, but we stuck close to the sundew.
We knew that this plant had settled in the moist zone which
ringed the woods, and followed the pattern of its shining
green and red-haired leaves like the fringe of a carpet. In
this way we reached the three tall poplars which in clear
weather stood out like lance-shafts marking the tip of the
Player's Copse. From this point we groped along the
sickle-shaped edge of the thicket up to the edge of the forest,
and there pushed into the Player's Copse at its broadest
point.
Once we had broken through a thick hedge of dogwood
and blackthorn we entered the high forest, territory where
the blow of an axe had never resounded. The ancient
trunks, the pride of the Chief Ranger, stood gleaming damp
like pillars with their capitals hidden by the mist. We
walked among them as if through a spacious hall, and, like
the magic setting of a stage, festoons of ivy and clematis
blooms hung down towards us out of the void. The ground
was piled high with mould and rotting branches, in the bark
of which fiery red mushrooms had sprung up, so that we
felt for a moment like divers wandering among coral gardens.
Wherever one of the mighty trunks had fallen from age
or struck by lightning, we stepped out on to a little clearing
on which the yellow foxglove grew in thick clumps. On the
rotting ground the deadly nightshade bloomed in profusion;
on its stalks the dark purple calices shook like funeral
bells.
The air was still and oppressive, and yet we put up birds of
all kinds. We heard, for instance, the fine chirping with
which the woodcock slips through the larches, and the
warning call with which the startled thrush interrupts its
song. Chuckling, the wryneck hid in a hollow alder stem,
and in the elm-tops an oriole accompanied us with its
clownish laughter. In the distance we heard the drunken
cooing of the wood-pigeons and the hammering of the
woodpeckers on the dead wood.
We were slowly breasting a gentle rise when Brother
Otho, who was slightly ahead, called back to me that the
clearing was quite near. This was the moment when I saw
the orchid we sought shimmering in the dusk and hastened
towards it with joy. The flower nestled closely in the
copper-brown beech leaves like a woodland bird. I saw its
slender leaves and the dark red blossom with the pale tip
to the petals that is its distinguishing mark.
When a collector comes suddenly upon a plant or animal
a feeling of joy comes over him, as if nature had bestowed
on him a precious gift. On making such a find I used to
call Brother Otho before touching it, so that he might share
the joy with me, but just as I was about to raise my eyes
towards him I heard a groan which startled me with fear.
It was the noise with which the breath of life slowly leaves
our breasts when we are mortally wounded. I saw him
standing before me on the crest of the slope as if spellbound,
and when I hastened to him he raised his hand to show
where I should look. Then I felt as if cruel talons had laid
hold upon my heart, for before me lay the abode of tyranny
in all its shame.

XIX
WE stood behind a small bush which bore flame-red berries
and looked out on to the clearing of Koppels-Bleek. The
weather had changed, for here we could see no trace of the
wreaths of mist which had accompanied us since we left the
Marble Cliffs. On the contrary, things stood out in full
definition, as if in the centre of a cyclone, in still and unstirred air. The voices of the birds, too, were silent, and
only a cuckoo flickered to and fro, as is the wont of his
kind, on the dark edge of the wood. Now near, now
far, we heard his mocking and questioning laughter call
'' Cuckoo, Cuckoo," and then descend in a triumphant
cadenza which made an icy chill run through our blood.
The clearing was overgrown with withered grass which
only in the background gave way to the grey teasel which one
finds on felling sites. From this parched base two large
bushes, which at first glance we took for laurels, rose
strangely fresh; yet their leaves were flecked with the yellow
to be seen on butchers' stalls. They grew on either side of
an old barn with yawning doors which stood in the clearing.
The light which played upon it was unlike any light of the
sun, but was hard and shadowless, so that the whitewashed
building stood out sharply defined. At intervals the walls
were divided off by black beams with tripod bases, and over
them rose to a point a grey shingle-roof. Against them,
too, leaned stakes and hooks.
Over the dark door on the gable-end a skull was nailed
fast, showing its teeth and seeming to invite entry with its
grin. Like a jewel in its chain, it was the central link of a
narrow gable frieze which appeared to be formed of brown
spiders. Suddenly we guessed that it was fashioned of
human hands fastened to the wall. So clearly did we see
this that we picked out the little peg driven through the
palm of each one.
On the trees, too, which ringed the clearing bleached the
death's-heads; many a one with eye sockets already mossgrown seemed to scan us with a dark smile. Except for the
mad dance in which the cuckoo flitted round the whiteness
of the skulls it was absolutely still. I heard Brother Otho
whisper half in a dream: " Yes, this is Koppels-Bleek."
The interior of the barn lay almost in darkness, and we
could distinguish only, close to the entrance, a flaying
bench on which a skin was stretched out. Behind it other
pale fungoid shapes shimmered out of the dark background.
Towards them, as if into a hive, we saw buzzing swarms of
steel-coloured and golden flies. Then the shadow of a
great bird fell over the spot. Its movements were those of a
vulture which swooped down on the teasel field on jagged
wings. Only when we saw it rooting with its beak and
sinking its red neck into the upturned soil did we become
aware that a dwarf was working there with a pick, and that
the bird followed his handiwork like a raven behind the
plough.
Now the dwarf laid down his pick and, whistling an air,
walked over to the barn. He was clad in a grey jerkin,
and we saw that he rubbed his hands as if after work well
done. When he had entered the barn there began a pounding and scraping on the flaying bench; he whistled his air
throughout in elfish merriment. Then we heard the wind
rocking itself as if in accompaniment among the pines so
that the pale skulls on the trees rattled in chorus. Into its
lament was mixed the swaying of the hooks and the twitching of the withered hands on the barn wall. The noise was
that of wood and bone, like a puppet show in the kingdom of
the dead. At the same time there bore down upon the
wind a clinging heavy and sweet smell of corruption, which
made us shiver to the marrow of our bones. Within us we
felt the melody of life touch its darkest and deepest chord.
Later we were unable to say how long we had watched the
goblin figure-perhaps no longer than a second. Then we
seemed to waken and, seizing each other's hands, we rushed
back into the high wood of the Player's Copse, accompanied
by the mocking call of the cuckoo. Now we knew the hell
kitchen from which the mist drifted over the Marina-since
we were determined not to give way, the old man of the
forest had shown us it a little more clearly. Such are the
dungeons above which rise the proud castles of the tyrants,
and from them is to be seen rising the curling savoury smoke
of their banquets. They are terrible noisome pits in which
a God-forsaken crew revels to all eternity in the degradation
of human dignity and human freedom. In such times the
muses are silent, and truth begins to flicker like a torch in a
current of foul air. Scarcely have the first mists begun to
brew up than one sees the weak already giving ground, and
even the warrior caste begins to lose heart when they see the
masklike faces rising up to the battlements from the depths.
So it comes about that in this world soldier's courage takes
second place, and only the noblest spirits in our midst
penetrate into the dwelling-place of terror. They know
that all these images in reality live only in our hearts, and
pass through them into the portals of victory as if they were
mere mirrored shadows. Thus the masked terrors confirm
them in their own reality.
But as for us, the dance of death on Koppels-Bleek had
terrified us to the core, and it was with a shudder that we
stood in the depth of the wood and listened to the cuckoo's
call. But then shame came over us, and it was Brother
Otho who insisted that we should at once return again to the
clearing, because the little red flower had not been entered in
our field-book. For it was our habit to enter all our finds
in the journal on the spot, since we had learned that many
things slipped our memory. So we may say with justice
that our Florula Marinre grew in the field.
We therefore pushed forward again, without turning
when the cuckoo called, as far as the little hill, and then
sought out the plant among the fallen leaves. After we had
once more looked at it well, Brother Otho dug it out by
the roots with our spade. Then we measured the plant in all
its parts with the compass, and along with the date entered
in our little book the particulars of the place where the find
had been made.
We men when we are busied about our appointed tasks
fulfil an office; and it is strange how immediately we are
possessed by a stronger feeling of invulnerability. We had
experienced this already on the field of battle where the
soldier, when the proximity of the enemy threatens to sap
his courage, turns with a will to duties which his rank
prescribes. There is great strength in the sight of the eyes
when in full consciousness and unshaded by obscurities it is
turned upon the things around us. In particular it draws
nourishment from created things, and herein alone lies the
power of science. Therefore we felt that even the tender
flower in its imperishable pattern and living form strengthened us to withstand the breath of corruption.
Later when we made our way through the high forest to
the edge of the wood the sun had come out, as it sometimes
does before its setting on days of mist. A golden glow lay
in the gaps among the crowns of the giant trees, and the
moss, too, under our feet had a golden gleam. The call of
the cuckoo had long since died away, but in the topmost
withered twigs the nightingales had taken up their perch
unseen-the fine singers whose voices filled the cool, fresh
air. Then with a cavernous shimmer of green light the
evening spread over the sky. A heavy scent streamed from
the sprays of honeysuckle dangling from above, and with a
hum of wings the gnats rose to their yellow horned blossoms.
We saw them trembling gently and seemingly lost in a
voluptuous dream before the erected flowers, and then with
a vibration they thrust their slender, slightly curved tongue
into the honeyed depths.
When we left the Player's Copse at the three poplars the
pale sickle of the moon was already beginning to take on a
golden hue and the stars stood out in the sky. In the sedgeland we came upon old Belovar, who had set out on our
trail in the dusk with his servants and trackers. The old
man laughed when later, over the saffron wine, we showed
him the red flower which we had made our prize at KoppelsBleek; but we were silent, and when we took our leave
bade him look to his fair and undamaged farmstead.

XX
THERE are certain experiences which force us to the test
anew; for us one such was the glimpse into the flaying-hut
at Koppels-Bleek. Our immediate resolve was to seek out
Father Lampros, but before we were able to reach the
monastery of Our Lady of the Crescent the catastrophe had
already broken over us.
The next day we spent long over the arranging of manuscripts in the herbarium and library, and laid much in order
for destruction by fire. Then, as darkness began, I once
more sat for a short time in the garden on the terrace wall to
enjoy the scent of the flowers. The warmth of the s_un still
lay over the beds, and yet the first cool was already rising
from the grass of the river banks and laying the smell
of the dust. Then the breath of night-scented stocks and
evening primroses fell cascadinp 1own from the Marble
Cliffs into the garden of the Rue~Garden Hermitage. And
since there are scents which fall and others which rise, so a
faint and subtle aroma mounted up through these heavy
waves.
I traced it down and saw that the great gold-striped lily
from Zipangu had opened in the dusk. It was still light
enough to see the flame-shaped streak of gold and the brown
tiger markings, too, which imposed their splendour on the
white bloom. In its shining white setting the pistil stood out
like the tongue of a bell, with the six slender stamens set
around it in a circle. They were coated with brown pollen
like the quintessence of opium, and as yet untouched by wing
of butterfly, so that the delicate sheath shone in their midst.
I bent over them and saw that their filaments still trembled
like chords in an instrument of nature's making, a carillon
from which there streamed, not harmonies, but a muskscented essence. It will always remain a marvel that
such delicate forms of life are imbued with so much
passion.
While I was contemplating the lily thus a fine blue ray of
light flashed on the road through the vineyards and advanced gropingly up the grape-clad hill. Then below I
heard a vehicle stop before the Hermitage gates. Although
we were expecting no guests, I hastened down to the door,
mindful of the vipers, and saw standing there a powerful car
humming softly like an almost imperceptibly vibrating
insect. It bore the colours reserved for the high nobility of
New Burgundy, and beside it stood two men of whom one
gave the sign with which the Mauretanians recognise each
other after dark. He told me his name, Braquemart, one
which I remembered, and presented me then to the other,
the young Prince of Sunmyra, a noble lord of New Burgundian stock.
I invited them to enter the Rue-Garden Hermitage and
took them by the hand to guide them. So we walked three
abreast up the snake-path in the failing light, and I remarked
that the Count scarcely noticed the beasts, whereas Braque-
mart stepped out of their way with a mixture of scorn and
circumspection.
We entered the library and there met Brother Otho, and
while Lampusa laid out wine and baked meats we fell into
conversation with our guests. Braquemart we knew from
earlier days, but we had seen him only fleetingly, for he was
often on his travels. He was a small, dark, haggard fellow
whom we found somewhat coarse-grained, but, like all the
Mauretanians, not without wit. He belonged to the race
of men whom we jokingly called tiger hunters because they
are usually to be met in the course of adventures of an
exotic nature. He sought out danger in the way that others
climb creviced rock-faces for sport: the plains he hated. He
had that kind of stout heart which does not quail at obstacles,
but unfortunately this virtue was coupled with contempt.
Like all who hunger after power and mastery, he was led
astray by his wild dreams into the realm of Utopias. It was
his opinion that from the beginning of history there have
been two races of men on this earth-the masters and the
slaves-and that in the course of time the breeds had crossed.
In this respect he was a pupil of old Pulverkopf, and, like
him, demanded that they should be separated anew. Then,
too, like every crude theoretician, he lived on the science of
the moment and occupied himself with archreology in particular. He was not subtle enough to sense that our spade
infallibly turns up all the evidence which already existed in
our minds, and, like many others before him, he had in this
way discovered the cradle of the human race. We took part
in the assembly before which he made his report on these
excavations, and heard how in a distant desert he had stumbled on a fantastic tableland. There high crags of porphyry
rose out of the wide plain; they had withstood the action of
the weather and stood firm like bastions or rock islands.
These Braquemart had scaled, and on their plateaus had
discovered ruins of princes' palaces and temples of the sun.
Mter describing their dimensions and characteristics, he
called up a picture of the land. He showed us the rich green
pastures, settled as far as the eye could see by herdsmen and
peasants with their flocks, and above them on the towers of
porphyry among the imperial splendour of their eyries the
pristine rulers of the world. He set the ships sailing again
with their purple poops down a river whose waters had long
since dried up; one saw a hundred oars dip in the water with
steady beat, like insect legs, and heard the clangour of the
gongs and the lash falling on the backs of the unhappy
galley slaves. These were images after his own heart. He
belonged to the race of men who dream concretely-a very
dangerous breed.
The young Prince also seemed remote and absent-minded,
but after quite another fashion. He cannot have been
much more than twenty, yet an air of deep suffering presented a strange contrast to his age. Although tall in
stature, he bore himself with curved shoulders as if his
height incommoded him. Nor did he seem to follow the
drift of our talk. I had the impression that great age and
extreme youth had met in his person-the age of his race
and the youth of his body. Thus his whole being bore the
deep stamp of decadence; one could see two forces at work
in him-that of hereditary greatness and the contrary
influence which the soil exerts upon all heredity. For
heredity is dead men's riches.
It is true that I had expected the nobility to come forward
in the last phase of the struggle for possession of the Marina.
I had believed that one day they would rise in arms from
their castles and keeps to be chivalrous leaders in the fight
for freedom. Instead of which I saw this man old before
his time, himself in need of support; the sight made it
abundantly clear to me how far decay had gone. · And yet
it seemed a thing to wonder at that this weary dreamer felt
himself called upon to give protection to others-in this
way the weakest and purest take upon themselves the iron
tasks of this earth.
Down below in front of the door I had already had an
inkling of what brought this pair to us with dimmed lights,
and Brother Otho seemed to know it, too, before even a
word had been spoken~ Then Braquemart asked us for a
sketch of the situation, which Brother Otho presented in
detail. The way in which Braquemart followed the story
made it evident that he was extremely well informed on all
the forces at play. He had already spoken with Biedenhorn, too, but with Father Lampros he was not acquainted.
The Prince, on the other hand, remained bowed in an
attitude of reverie. Even the mention of Koppels-Bleek,
which put Braquemart in a good temper, seemed to pass
over his head; only when he heard of the prostitution of the
eburnum did he start in anger from his seat. Then Brother
Otho indicated in general terms our opinion of things and
the way we must conduct ourselves. Braquemart heard
him with courtesy, it is true, but at the same time with illconcealed irony. One could read from his brow that he
considered us merely as feeble visionaries, and that his own
mind was made up. Thus there are situations in which each
thinks the other a dreamer.
It may seem noteworthy that in this affair Braquemart
wished to confront the Ranger, although there was much in
common in their ways of thought and action. But it is an
error which often runs through our thoughts that we deduce
identity of goals from identity of methods, and conclude
that the aims are the same. Yet there was a difference to
this degree, that the Ranger had in mind to people the
Marina with wild beasts, while Braquemart looked on it
as land to be settled with slaves and their overlords. At
bottom the question revolved round one of the internal
conflicts between Mauretanians which it is not practicable
to describe here. It is sufficient to indicate that between
full-blown nihilism and unbridled anarchy there is a
profound difference. Whether the abodes of men shall
become desert or primeval forest depends upon the outcome
of this struggle.
As far as Braquemart is concerned, he bore the unmistakable stamp of nihilism in its later stages. His was a cold,
rootless intelligence, and with it went a leaning to Utopias.
Then, too, like all his kind, he conceived of life as the
mechanism of a clock, and therefore in force and terror he
saw the gears which drive the timepiece of life. At the
same time he indulged in the idea of a second artificial
natural order, intoxicated himself with the perfume of
synthetic flowers and the pleasures of mimed sensuality.
Creation had died in his heart, and he had reconstructed it
like a mechanical toy. The flowers which blossomed on his
brow were blooms of ice. On seeing him one could not
but think of his master's profound utterance:" The desert is
spreading; woe to him who within himself conceals a desert.''
And yet we felt slightly attracted to Braquemart-not so
much because he had a stout heart, for the more stone-like
a man becomes merit based on courage diminishes. What
was attractive in him was rather a subtle air of suffering, the
bitterness of a man who is sick at heart. He sought to
wreak vengeance for it on the world, like a child laying
waste a carpet of flowers in futile rage. Nor did he
spare himself, but penetrated with cool daring into the
labyrinths of fear. In the same way, when we have lost
feeling for our homeland, we seek out the distant worlds of
adventure.
In his thinking he took life for his model, and was insistent that thoughts should be armed with tooth and claw.
Yet his theories were like the products of distillation, and
in the process the true vital force was lost; they lacked
a precious ingredient-the rich abundance which alone
imparts a savour. The dominant quality of his plans was
aridness, although there was no error to be found in his
logic. Similarly, the trueness of a bell is lost through an
invisible fault in the casting. The reason was that with him
power was too much a matter of the intellect, and found too
little expression in grandezza, in native desinvolture.
In this respect the Chief Ranger had the better of him, for
he wore his power like a good old hunting jacket that fitted
him the better the oftener it was steeped in mire and blood.
For this reason I had the impression that Braquemart was
about to embark upon an ill-fated venture; in such encounters the theorist has always been worsted by the man of
action.
It seemed that Braquemart had an inkling of his weakness
with regard to the Chief Ranger, and for that reason had
brought the young Prince with him. Yet to us it seemed
that the latter was motivated by quite other interests; in this
way there often spring up strange comradeships. Perhaps
it was the Prince who was using Braquemart to ferry him to
a distant shore. In that weak body there lived a strong urge
towards suffering, and by it he was guided like a sleepwalker, without conscious thought, yet never losing the
path. In the same way, on the field of battle, the good
soldiers tear themselves from the ground with their last
breath when the bugle sounds for the assault.
With Brother Otho I often thought back to this conversa-
tion, which took place under an unlucky star. The Prince
spoke scarcely a word, and Braquemart displayed the
unbearable air of superiority by which one may recognise
the technician. We could read in his face that he inwardly
made merry over our timidity, and without letting drop a
single word about his own plans questioned us on the lie of
the forests and pasture-lands. He also showed great interest
in details about Fortunio's adventure and ill-fated end.
From his questions we saw that he was planning a reconnaissance or operation in these parts, and suspected that,
like an unskilled doctor, he would aggravate the evil. For
it was, after all, no mere chance or adventure that had begun
to bring forth the Ranger and his Lemur people from the
darkness of the woods, and led them to deploy and show
their real nature. Formerly rabble of this sort had been
dealt with like common petty thieves, and their growing
strength pointed to deep changes in the ordered relations,
the health and well-being of the people. Now battle had to
be joined, and therefore men were needed to restore a new
order, and new theologians as well, to whom the evil was
manifest from its outward phenomena down to its most
subtle roots; then the time would come for the first stroke
of the consecrated sword, piercing the darkness like a
lightning flash. For this reason individuals had the duty of
living in alliance with others, gathering the treasure of a new
rule of law; but the alliance had to be stronger than before,
and they more conscious of it. Thus even to win a brief
race one lives according to a rule. But in this case there
were at stake life in its highest form, liberty and the dignity
of man. Braquemart, it is true, since he intended to pay
the Ranger in his own coin, considered that such plans were
mere flummeries. He had lost his own self-respect; from
that loss springs all human misery.
Thus we spoke long round the subject. If we could not
reach understanding through words, yet our silences were
illuminating. Before a decision is taken our minds consult
like doctors round a sick-bed. One is for using the knife,
another wishes to spare the patient, and the third searches
for a rare remedy. But of what avail are human councils
and human wishes when disaster is written in the stars ?
Yet even on the eve of lost battles council of war is held.
The Prince and Braquemart planned to explore the
pasture-lands that same night, and since they would not
accept our guidance or escort we recommended old Belovar
to them. Then we accompanied both to the foot of the
marble stairway. We took formal leave of them, as one
does when the meeting has been without warmth and
fruitless into the bargain. Yet as epilogue there came an
unspoken scene to confound me. The pair halted on the
cliffs in the first pale light, scanning us long and silently.
Already the cool air of the morning was rising, in which
things are revealed to the eye as if they were unfolding, new
and mysterious, in their first birth. So, too, the Prince and
Braquemart as they stood. It seemed to me that Braquemart had lost his air of mocking superiority and was smiling
humanly. The young Prince, for his part, had straightened
himself and looked at us with a cheerful mien, as if he knew
the key to the problem that vexed us. The silence lasted
long; then Brother Otho grasped the Prince's hand once
more and bent low over it.
After they had disappeared from sight over the crest of
the cliffs I sought once more, before I went to rest, the goldstriped lily of Zipangu. Insect wings had already stripped
the delicate stamens and the depths of the green-gold cup
were flecked with purple dust. Doubtless the great night
moths had scattered it in their nuptial flight.
So from each hour there flows mixed joy and bitterness.
And as I bent over the bedewed blossom there rang out
from the fringe of the distant forests the first cuckoo calls.

XXI
WE spent the morning with unquiet minds, the abandoned
vehicle still before our door. At breakfast Lampusa
delivered to us a note from Phyllobius from which we
learned that the visit had not escaped his notice. In it he
asked us to give the Prince an urgent invitation to the
cloister; Lampusa's tardiness in delivering it was disastrous.
At midday came old Belovar to inform us that the young
Prince had appeared at his farm along with Braquemart at
crack of dawn. There Braquemart, studying an illuminated
parchment the while, had sought information on various
localities in the forest. Then they had set off again, and the
old man had sent out scouts from his clan on their trail.
The two had vanished into the woods in the stretch between
the Player's Copse and the Coppice of the Red Steer.
The news told us that evil was in the wind, and we would
rather that they had set off with the henchmen and sons
of Belovar, as had been proposed to them. We knew
Braquemart's fundamental principle that none inspires
more fear than the lone fighter, and considered it possible
that they would seek out the man of blood amidst the
splendour of his court and confront him face to face. But
it came about that they fell into the nets of the powers of
evil; we had a suspicion that Lampusa 's tardiness had
some connection with the web. We thought of the fate of
Fortunio, who had yet been a man of great gifts and had
long studied the forests before penetrating' into them.
Doubtless it was his map which had come into Braquemart's possession by devious ways. After Fortunio's
death we had searched for it long, and learned that it had
fallen into the hands of treasure-hunters.
Thus the two of them had ventured into danger without
preparation and without any ideal to guide them, as if it
were some common adventure. They went like half-menon the one hand Braquemart, the pure technician of power
who saw only fragments and never the roots of things; and
on the other hand the Prince Sunmyra, the noble spirit, who
knew the nature of justice and order, but was like a child
venturing into forests where the wolves are howling. Yet it
seemed possible to us that Father Lampros could have
altered them both deeply and made them whole men, as
can happen with the aid of mysteries. We wrote him a
letter telling him how things stood, and sent Erio off in haste
to the cloister of Our Lady of the Crescent.
Since the appearance of the Prince and Braquemart at the
Hermitage we felt anxious at heart, and yet we saw things
more clearly than before. We felt that they were reaching
their climax, and that we would have to swim for it as if
caught in the broken waters of a gorge. We considered,
too, that the time had come to keep Nigromontanus 's
mirror ready, and wished to light the flame by its means
while the sun was still favourable. We climbed up on to the
balcony and kindled the lamp in the prescribed manner,
catching the fire from the skies in the crystal disc. With
great joy we saw the blue flame descend, and hid mirror
and lamp in the niche which holds the household gods.
We had not yet changed our garb when Erio returned
With the monk's reply. He had found the Father in prayer;
without reading our letter, he had handed the boy a written
message. Thus are orders delivered which have long been
sealed and ready.
We saw that for the first time the missive was signed with
Lampros; in addition it bore the crest with the motto '' I
bide my time.'' For the first time, too, it made no mention
of plants; instead, the Father requested me in briefterms to
find the Prince and take him into my care. He added that I
ought not to go unarmed.
Then it was a case of arming in haste, and, exchanging a
few hasty words with Brother Otho, I drew on the old and
well-tried hunting jacket which no thorn could pierce. It
must be confessed that in the Hermitage we were illfurnished with weapons. There was nothing but a gun such
as is used for duck-hunting, but with a shortened barrel.
We had used it at times on our journeys to shoot at reptiles,
which combine a thick hide and a tenacious grip on life, and
which coarse shot dispatched more surely than the bestaimed rifle. When my glance rested on it, memory called
up for me the musky odour which the wind in the hot riverside thickets bore down to the hunter as he approached the
spots where the great saurians leave the water. For those
hours when land and water merge in the dusk we had set a
silver bead on the barrel. This was the only thing in our
house which we could call a weapon; I therefore took it
down, and Brother Otho hung round me the capacious
leather wallet with, on its flap, nooses for shot birds and
sewn inside a belt for cartridges.
So in our haste we seize whatever first comes to hand;
besides, it was likely that Father Lampros had recommended me to arm as a symbol of freedom and hostility,
just as one comes bearing flowers in friendship. The good
sword which I had worn with the Purple Horse hung in the
North in my father's house; but for such an expedition I
would never have chosen it. It had flashed in the sun in the
heat of cavalry engagements when the earth thunders under
the hoof-beats and the breast swells gloriously. I had
drawn it during the swaying gallop forward when the
weapons clash, lightly at first and then with growing
volume, while the eye is already picking out the opponent in
the enemy squadron. I had relied upon it, too, in those
moments of single combat when one traverses the broad
plain at the gallop in the midst of the melee, and empty
saddles are already to be seen. Then many a blow was
struck which fell on the guard of Frankish rapiers or the
basket-hilt of Scottish claymores, and many too at which
the wrist felt the soft resistance of naked flesh as the blade
cut its mortal way. But all these, and even the free sons of
the barbarian peoples, were men of honour who opposed
their breasts to the steel for the sake of their native land;
and at a feast one could have raised the glass to them like
brothers. The brave of this earth determine in combat the
boundaries of liberty, and weapons drawn on their like
cannot be borne against executioners and their underlings.
In haste I took leave of Brother Otho and of Erio too. I
interpreted it as a good omen that as I did so the boy looked
at me with joyful assurance. Then I set out on my way
with the old herdsman.

XXII
DAWN was already breaking when we reached the big
farmstead among the pastures. Even from a distance we
saw that the place was in an uproar; the byres gleamed in
the light of torches and resounded with the lowing of cattle
being driven in with haste. We met a body of armed
herdsmen, and learned that others were off in distant regions
of the Campagna where there were herds to be hidden
away. In the courtyard Sombor welcomed us, the old
man's eldest son, a giant with a full red beard and in his
hand a whip of which the tails were hung with leaden
pellets. He reported that about noon a commotion had
arisen in the woods; they had seen smoke rising and heard
noises. Then from the marshy scrub which lined the
Player's Copse there had advanced troops of ''glow-worms"
and huntsmen who had driven off a herd grazing there in a
distant pasture. It is true that Sombor had won back part
of their booty before they had re-crossed the marsh, but in
so doing he had identified groups of foresters, so that a
sortie could be expected at any time; In the meantime
his trackers had spotted patrols and single scouts at other
points as well-at the Copse of the Red Steer and even in
our rear. Good fortune had brought us to the farm just
before we were cut off from it.
Such being the case, I could not expect old Belovar to
accompany me on my thrust forward into the woods, and
thought he would do well to look to his possessions and his
folk. But I still misjudged the old warrior and the zeal he
could show for his friends. At once he swore an oath that
house and byre and barn might burn to the ground before
he would allow me to take even a step alone that day, and
transferred to Sombor the care of the farm. At these words
the women-folk, who were already dragging the things of
value from the house, quickly touched wood and thronged
round us with wails. Then the old grandmother came up
and laid her hands upon us from head to foot. On my right
shoulder her fingers were arrested, but the second time
glided over unchecked. But when she touched her son's
forehead a fit of terror seized her and she covered her face.
Then his young wife threw herself on his breast with the
shrill lamenting wail that is the keening cry.
But Belovar was not the man to be moved by women's
tears, least of all when the intoxication of battle ran in his
blood. He cleared a space around himself with both arms,
like a swimmer parting the waves, and with a loud voice
called his sons and retainers to the fight by name. He chose
only a patrol, leaving all the others to his son Sombor for
the defence of the farmstead. But he picked none but those
who had killed their man in the clan feuds, and whom he
called his cockerels when he was in good humour. They
came in leather doublets and leather hoods with the rude
weapons which have been stored in the armouries of the
prairie farms since the times of distant ancestors. There
in the gleam of the torches were to be seen halberds and
spiked maces and massive poles which bore keen axe-heads
and saw-edged blades-pikes, too, scaling irons, and all
manner of barbed hooks. So armed, the old man proposed
to scour the woods of miscreants and sweep them away, as
he had longed to do in his heart.
Then the kennel boys pushed open the doors behind which
the packs barked and bayed, the slim coursers and the
heavy mastiffs distinguished by their high- or low-pitched
note. With lolling tongues and a deep growl they poured
out to fill the courtyard, at their head the massive bloodhound, Leontodon. He bounded up to Belovar and,
whining, set his paws on his shoulders, although the old
man was a giant. The boys let them drink their fill, pouring
blood for them to lick over the flags from a dripping bowl.
The two packs were the old man's pride, and he owed it to
them without a doubt that the rabble from the forest villages
had in the last years gone out of their way to avoid his
farm. For his light pack he had bred the swift windhound
of the steppe with which the free Arab shares his couch
and whose young his wife suckles from her own breasts.
In the frames of these greyhounds each muscle could be
traced as if an anatomist had laid it bare, and they were so
full of movement that even in their dreams a constant
twitching ran over their bodies. Of all the fleet beasts of
this earth, only the cheetah could outstrip them, and that
only over a short distance. They hunted the game in pairs,
cutting across its twists and turns; then they fastened
on its shoulders. But there were also whippets that worked
alone, which brought their victim down by the throat and
held it till the hunter came.
In his heavy pack the old man bred the Molossan hound,
a splendid fawn beast brindled with black. The intrepidity
which marks this race was further strengthened by crossing
the breed with the Tibetan mastiff, which used to be set
against aurochs and lions in the Roman arenas. This
strain showed itself in the size, the proud carriage and the
tail, which they carried like a standard. Almost all these
mastiffs bore in their hides deep scars-mementoes of blows
from great paws during the bear-hunt. The giant bear had
to hug the edge of the wood when it broke from cover into
the pasture-land, for when the dogs on his trail had overtaken him and brought him to bay the mastiffs tore him to
shreds even before the hunters could deal the final blow.
The inner court was filled with bounding dogs that
growled and snarled as they licked their chops, and from the
red maws we saw that gleam of their terrible fangs. To this
was added the crackling of the torches, the clatter of weapons,
and the lament of the women who fluttered here and there
like startled pigeons. This was a din in which the old man
revelled; with his right hand he stroked his beard complacently, while the left made his broad dirk dance in the red
cloth girdle. He bore, too, a double-headed axe slung from
his wrist by a leather thong.
Then the kennel boys rushed on the dogs with leather
gauntlets reaching to their shoulders and coupled them
securely with coral-red leashes. Then we passed through
the gate with dowsed torches, and so over the farthest
bounds of the pasture-lands towards the forest.
The moon had risen, and in its light I gave myself up to
the thoughts which steal upon us when we go forward into
the unknown. Memories rose up of wonderful morning
hours when we rode with the advance guard in front of our
columns, and behind us in the cool of the early day there
resounded the chorus of the young horsemen. Then we
felt our hearts beat so joyfully that all the treasures of this
earth would have seemed dross to us compared to the
imminent joy of sharp-fought and honourable action. Oh,
what a difference there was between those moments. and this
night in which I saw glitter weapons like the talons and
horns of terrible monsters. We were entering the Lemurpeopled woods where human justice and man-made laws
are unknown; in them there was no fame to be won. And I
felt the vanity of shining deeds and of honour-felt, too,
great bitterness of heart.
Yet it was a comfort to me that I had not come under the
spell of a mystical adventure as I had the first time when I
sought Fortunio, but in a good cause and summoned by
lofty spiritual powers. And I resolved not to give way to
fear nor yet to overweening confidence.

XXIII
WHILE still in the neighbourhood of the farm we divided up
our forces for the advance. We sent scouts ahead and had
the coupled coursing hounds follow them, while the mainguard brought up the rear with the heavy pack. The moonlight had grown so bright that one could read the written
word by its rays; therefore so long as we still marched across
the pastures the individual detachments were easily kept in
sight. On our left, too, we saw the three tall poplars like
black lances, and in front the dark mass of the Player's
Copse, so that we kept to our line of march without difficulty. We were advancing towards the curved sweep of
wood where the sickle of the Player's Copse thrust forward
from the high forest.
My place was at the side of the old fighter of blood feuds
with the light pack, and from that position we kept the
vanguard within sight. When it reached the girdle of reed
and elders which bounded the swamp we saw them stop
dead, then they pushed forward through a gap. Scarcely
had they vanished from our view than we heard an evil,
grating, snapping sound, which seemed to come from iron
jaws, and with it a mortal cry. The scouts pushed back out
of the brushwood into the open as we hastened forward to
catch up with them and discover what was amiss.
We found the gap through which the scouts had passed
knee-high in broom and heather. It glinted in the moonlight, and in its midst presented to our eyes a scene of horror.
We saw hanging there like a trapped animal one of the
young retainers, caught in the massive iron grip of a
machine. His feet scarcely touched the ground, and head
and arms hung down behind him among the uildergrowth.
We hastened up to him )Jnd saw that he had been caught in a
woodcock spring-as the Ranger called the heavy man-traps
which he had concealed where men would pass. The sharp
edge of the jaw had severed his breast, and a glance sufficed
to show that aid was impossible. Yet with joint effort we
tensed the spring to free the corpse from the grip. When so
doing we discovered that the trap was armed with sharp
teeth of blue steel like the jaws of a shark. Once we had
laid out the corpse on the heath, we carefully closed the jaws
again.
It was naturally to be assumed that spies were keeping a
watch on the trap, and indeed, as we still stood in silence
round the dead victim of the villainous weapon, we heard a
rustling in the scrub nearby and then a burst of loud mocking laughter in the night. Now a stir ran through the
swamp as if a flock of crows had been disturbed from the
sleeping perches. There was a breaking of branches and a
scuffling in the gravel patches, and a rustle ran along the
dark ditches beside which the Ranger had his hides for
hunting duck. At the same time the marsh resounded with
whistles and raucous voices, as if it were infested with a
swarm of rats. We heard the rabble taking heart, as it
does in the slime of the gutters and the hulks if it is sure that
numbers are on its side. And, indeed, they appeared to be
greatly superior to us in strength, for near and far we
caught the ribald songs of the rogues' guilds. Thus hard
by us the band of La Picousiere roared their song. They
stamped their feet in the marshy ground and croaked like
frogs:
''.Catherine a le craque moisi,
Des seins pendants,
Des pieds de cochon,
La faridondaine.''
And out of the high broom, the reedy thickets and the
bushy willows the loud refrain echoed back. In this
confusion we saw wild-fires dance on the stagnant waters,
and waterfowl skimmed past on startled wings.
Meantime the main body with the heavy pack had also
come up in haste, and we noticed that the retainers came
near to wavering before this weird crowd. Then it was old
Belovar who raised his voice in a mighty shout: " Forward,
lads, forward ! The rabble is giving ground. Watch for
the traps."
With these words he began to push forward without a
glance to right or left, making the blades of his double axe
glint in the moonlight. Then the retainers too followed,
burning to come to grips with the setters of snares. In
little clumps we forced our way through reed and bush and
tested the ground as best we might. In this way we looked
for the passages between ponds on whose dark mirror the
water-lilies gleamed, and slipped through the brittle bulrushes, scattering the cotton from their dark tufts. Soon
we heard the voices close at hand and felt the whistle of the
balls as they passed our temples. Now it was the turn of
the kennel boys to excite the dogs until their coats bristled
and their eyes sparkled like glowing coals. Then they were
let slip, and with a whine of joy shot like pale arrows through
the dark undergrowth.
The old man had been right in maintaining that the
rogues would not stand and fight; scarcely had the dogs
begun to bay than we heard plaintive cries which fled and
were lost among the brushwood, and behind them the pack
in full tongue, hot on the scent. We doubled forward after
them and saw that beyond the brush there was a peat moor
where the ground was level as a threshing-floor. Across
this level space the rabble had taken flight and were racing
for their lives towards the thick wood. But only those
could win it who had not a coursing hound on their heels.
We saw many who had been set upon by the dogs and had to
turn at bay; like pale flames licking round the damned, the
dogs surrounded them and sprang greedily at their throats.
Here and there, too, the fugitives had been brought down
and lay on the ground as if hamstrung, for a single dog held
each one by the neck.
Now the boys let slip the heavy pack, and with a howl the
mastiffs rushed forward into the night. We saw them leap
upon their victims and bring them down; then, fighting over
it, they tore their prey apart and scattered it in fragments
on the ground. The kennel boys followed and gave the
coup de gr?lce. This was a scene from hell devoid of mercy.
They stooped over the dead and threw the dogs their reward.
Then, with greater effort than before, they leashed the
hounds anew.
So we stood upon the moor on the threshold of the dark
forest. Old Belovar was in good humour, praised man
and dog for their work and distributed brandy. Then he
pressed on to a new advance before the forest was put into
alarm by the fleeing rabble, and had a breach laid bare with
hatchets in the thick-set hedge which bounded it. We were
not far from the spot where I had penetrated with Brother
Otho to find the red woodland orchid, and it was KoppelsBleek we planned to attack first.
Soon the breach was as wide as a barn door. We kindled
torches and entered the high forest through the dark
jaws.

XXIV
LIKE red pillars, the trunks gleamed in the light of the
flaring torches; their smoke rose perpendicularly in fine
thread-like wisps which, high above our heads, wove a
canopy in the unstirred air. We moved forward in extended
order, bunching to force our way past fallen trunks and then
spreading out again. But by the aid of the torches we kept
each other well in sight. To ensure that we did not lose the
path the old herdsman had brought sacks filled with chalk,
and with it had a gleaming white trail laid. So he ensured
our line of retreat.
The hounds advanced on Koppels-Bleek, drawn as ever
by the scent of evil and the shambles. Under their guidance
we gained ground rapidly and moved gradually to the head
of the column. Only now and again a bird flitted down with
a beat of heavy wings from its nest in the tree-tops. And
silently swarms of bats circled in the glow of the torches.
Soon I seemed to recognise the hill on the edge of the
clearing; it was lit by the dull reflection of glowing fire.
We halted, and heard once again the sound of voices carried
over to us, but they had lost the braggart note they had
before up on the moor. It seemed that here detachments of
foresters had taken up position to defend the woods, and
Belovar proposed to sweep them aside as he had already
done with the outlaw bands. He brought the coursers to
the van and lined them up as if for a race; then he sent them
into the darkness like glowing shot. As they tore their way
through the bushes we heard opposite us whistles and then
howls, as if they had come up against the wild huntsman
himself. They had clashed with the bloodhound pack
which the Chief Ranger kept in his kennels.
Of these savage mastiffs, their ferocity and strength,
Fortunio had told me things that bordered on legend. In
them the Chief Ranger had carried on the stock of the
Cuban mastiff, which is red-haired and has a black mask.
Long ago the Spaniards had trained these dogs to tear
Indians to shreds, and had exported them to all lands where
slaves and overseers are to be found. With their aid the
negroes of Jamaica had been subjected again after they had
assured their victorious rising by force of arms. Their
appearance is described as terrifying, for hardly had the
slave-hunters landed with the coupled hounds than the
rebels, who had held fire and steel in contempt, offered their
submission. The leader of the red pack was Chiffon Rouge,
a beast dear to the Chief Ranger, because he was in a direct
line by birth from the bloodhound Becerillo, whose name is
linked in such a sinister manner with the conquest of Cuba.
It is reported that his master, Capitano Jago de Senazda,
set him to bait captured Indian women as a spectacle to
entertain his guests. Thus in human history there ever
recur moments in which it threatens to come under the sway
of Satan.
From the terrifying cries we knew that our light pack was
already lost before we could even send help. It was doomed
to be exterminated all the faster since it was of pedigree
stock, which fights to the death instead of giving ground.
We heard the red couples after their first baying close in to
grapple; as their howling died away and their jaws met
greedily on flesh and fur, the clear bark of the windhounds
whimpered into silence.
Old Belovar, who had seen his noble beasts sacrificed in
the twinkling of an eye, began to storm and curse, and yet he
dared not throw in the Molossan hounds after them, for
they were our strongest remaining card in the uncertain
game. Therefore he called to his retainers to look to their
arms; then they rubbed the breasts and jowls of the great
beasts with spirit of henbane and fastened round their
necks spiked collars to protect them. The others set the
torches in dead branches in preparation for the fight.
All this took but a moment, and scarcely had we taken up
position than the red pack burst upon us like a storm. We
heard them break through the dark bushes; then the beasts
leapt round the circle within which the torchlight lay like
the glow of fire. At the head was Chiffon Rouge, round
whose neck there sparkled a fan of knife-sharp blades. He
held his head low and let his tongue loll dripping to the
ground; the eyes blinked and peered out from under his
brows. From a distance one saw the bared fangs glisten,
with the lower pair protruding over the lips like tusks. In
spite of its weight, the huge beast sprang forward with light
bounds-with little dancing gambols and leaps aside as if in
its overpowering strength it disdained to attack us in full
career. And behind him there appeared the bloodhound
pack, black and red in the light of the torches.
At the sight cries of fear rang out and there rose loud
calls for the Molossan hounds. I saw old Belovar glance
anxiously at his mastiffs, but the proud beasts, with sharp
eyes fixed ahead and pricked ears, pulled on the leash undaunted. Then the old man laughed to me and gave the
signal; as if shot from a taut bowstring, the yellow hounds
flew upon the red pack. At their head Leontodon rushed
upon Chiffon Rouge.
Then under the massive trunks in the red light there was a
howling and triumphant baying as if the legions of hell were
charging past, and the lust for death spread on all sides. In
dark masses the animals rolled and worried at each other on
the ground, while others on the heels of the enemy raced
round our position in a wide circle. We attempted to
intervene in the fray, which filled the air with its clamour,
but it was difficult to pick out the red hounds with spear or
shot without injuring the Molossan dogs. Only where
hunter and hunted circled us in their race was it possible to
take aim at individual dogs and bring them down like wildfowl. Here it became evident that in my weapon I had
unwittingly made the best possible choice of weapons. I
attempted to fire when my eye saw the silver sight cover the
black mask, and was then certain that my shot would bring
down the beast and halt it in full career.
But over on the other side, too, we saw the flash of shots,
and guessed that from there they were shooting down the
Molossan dogs in their tracks. Thus the skirmish was like a
hunt which formed an ellipse round two points of fire, with
the heavy pack fighting on the shorter axis. In the course
of the fight the track of the hounds was lit by columns of fire,
for where the torches fell to the ground the dry brushwood
flared up into a blaze.
Soon it was obvious that the Molossan dog was superior
to bloodhound, if not in strength of jaw, then certainly in
weight and power of attack. But the red dogs were superior in numbers. It seemed, too, that from the other side
still more fresh couples were being thrown into the fray, for
we found it more and more difficult to give support to our
hounds. The bloodhounds had been carefully trained to
attack human beings, whom the Chief Ranger held to be the
best of game; and when the Molossan dogs were no longer
in sufficient numbers fears for our own safety distracted our
eyes from the hunt. Now from the shadowy bushes, now
from the thick smoke of the fires, one of the red beasts
would hurtle upon us, and its approach was heralded by
cries. Then we had to look to it in haste that it was shot
down in its charge; yet many were halted only on the pikes
of the retainers, and on many a one the double axe of
Belovar whistled down when it already lay upon its victim,
thirsting for blood.
By now we could see the first ill-omened signs of cracking
in our ranks; it seemed to me, too, as if the cries of the
retainers were louder and more anxious; in such situations
an undertone of quiet weeping tells us that despair is
threatening to draw near. With these cries there were
mixed the howling of the packs, the report of the shots and
the crackling of the flames. Then we heard resounding
from out of the thickest wood a mighty peal of laughter, a
roared guffaw, which intimated to us that the Chief Ranger
was taking part in the action. In this laughter there rang
out the fearful joviality which marked his character; he still
had something of the great lord who exults with joy when
challenged to the fight. And then fear was his element.
In this confusion I began to get hot, and felt that excitement was gaining the upper hand in me. But, as often
before in such situations, there rose in my mind the picture
of my old master of fence, van Kerkhoven. The latter, a
little Fleming with a red beard, who had trained me in footwork, used often to say that an aimed shot is better than ten
fired at random. He impressed upon me, too, that at the
point in the battle when panic threatened to spread I should
hold out my extended index finger and breathe calmly.
For he was the strongest who had drawn a good breath.
Kerkhoven, then, sprang to my mind; for all true teaching is a thing of the spirit, and when we are hard pressed the
spirits of good masters stand by our sides. And as I had
done once upon a time in the North on the shooting range,
I halted to draw a long, deep breath, and felt my sight grow
clearer and my breast less constricted.
Most dangerous of all, as the battle turned against us,
was that the thick smoke more and more limited our field of
fire. Thus the fighters became isolated and objects lost
their definition. Then, too, the 1ed dogs burst out at ever
shorter range. Therefore more than once I saw Chiffon
Rouge cross the front of my position, but whenever I
attempted to take aim the cunning beast made for cover.
Then the hunter's lust to kill and the passionate desire to
lay low the Chief Ranger's favourite bloodhound tempted
me to leap after it the next time I saw it disappear into the
thick smoke, which flowed past me like a broad stream.

XXV

Now and again in the thick smoke I thought I saw the
shadowy form of the monster, but always too fleetingly
for a well-aimed shot. Besides, phantasms in the coiling
wreaths deceived me, so that in the end I halted in my uncertainty and stood listening. Then I heard a crackling of
twigs, and the suspicion seized me that the beast might have
cast about to attack me from the rear. To protect myself I
knelt down with raised rifle and chose a thorn bush to cover
my back.
It often happens in such situations that our eye is caught
by trivial objects, and so on the spot where I knelt I saw a
plant blossoming among the dead leaves and recognised in
it the little red woodland orchid. I must therefore be on the
spot which I had reached with Brother Otho, and consequently hardby the eminence near Koppels-Bleek. And so
it was; with a few steps I gained the little crest which rose
like an island from the smoke.
From the ridge I saw the clearing at Koppels-Bleek
shimmer in a dull glow, but my gaze was diverted far into
the depths of the forests to where a great fire raged. There I
saw rising in flames-tiny and seemingly fashioned from red
filigree-a turreted and towered castle. I then called to
mind that on Fortunio's map this spot was marked" Southern Residence.'' The fiery glow revealed to me that the
attack by the Prince and Braquemart must have penetrated
as far as the steps of the palace; and as always when we
see the results of gallant deeds, a feeling of joy rose in
my breast. But simultaneously I recalled the triumphant
laughter of the Chief Ranger, and hastily I turned my eyes
on Koppels-Bleek. There I saw things which in their
infamy made me grow pale.
The fires which lit Koppels-Bleek still glowed, but a white
layer of ashes covered them with silver domes. Their
glimmer fell on the flaying-hut, which stood wide open, and
coloured the grinning skull on the gable with red light.
From footsteps on the earth around the fires and signs in
the cavernous interior, which I will not describe, one could
see that the Lemurs had celebrated here one of their loathsome festivals, and its afterglow still lay over the spot. We
human beings look on such deeds of darkness with bated
breath and catch but a glimpse of them.
It suffices to say that among all the old and long since
fleshless heads my eye caught sight of two new ones hoisted
high on poles-the heads of the Prince and of Braquemart.
From the iron pike-heads with their curving hooks they
looked down upon the glow of the fires which were flaking
away to ash. The young Prince's hair had turned white,
yet I found in his features greater nobility and the lofty,
sublime beauty to which only sorrow gives birth.
At the sight I felt tears start to my eyes, but they were
such tears as fill us with wonderful exultation together with
their sorrow. On this pale mask from which the scalped
flesh hung in ribbons and which looked on the fires from the
elevation of the torturer's pike there played the shadow of a
smile intensely sweet and joyful, and I knew that on this day
the weaknesses had fallen from this noble man with each
step of his martyrdom, like the rags of a king disguised in
beggar's weeds. Then a shudder ran through my inmost
heart, for I realised that he had been worthy of his forefathers, the tamers of monsters; he had slain the dragon
fear in his own breast. Then I was certain of something
which I had often doubted-there were still noble beings
amongst us in whose hearts lived unshakable knowledge
of a lofty ordered life. And since a high example leads us
in its train, I took an oath before this head that from that
day forth I would rather fall with the free men than go in
triumph among the slaves.
Braquemart's features, on the other hand, looked quite
unchanged. He glanced down on Koppels-Bleek from his
pike with irony and a faint air of disgust; his feigned tranquillity was that of a man who feels a violent internal conflict,
but allows no sign to show in his countenance. It would
therefore hardly have surprised me to notice in his eye the
monocle he wore in life. His hair, too, was still black and
glossy, and I guessed that he had taken in time the pill
which every Mauretanian carries on his body. It is a
capsule of coloured glass, generally carried in a ring, or, in
moments of peril, in the mouth. A bite suffices to crush the
capsule, in which is sealed a poison of rare potency. This
is the procedure which is described in the language of the
Mauretanians as the appeal in the third instance; it corresponds to the third degree of violence and fits the concept
of human dignity they cherish in this Order; They consider
that it is impaired by anyone who suffers violence with indignities; and they expect of each Mauretanian that he should
be prepared for death's summons at any hour. Such, then,
was the last adventure of Braquemart.
I looked at the sight numbed with horror, and without
knowing how long I remained before it, as if I were outside
of time. At the same time I fell into a half-dream in which
I forgot the nearness of danger. In such a state we pass
like sleep-walkers through perils, not picking our way, but
close to the spirit of things. So I stepped on to the clearing
at Koppels-Bleek, and things were distinct, as in drunkenness, but not external to me. They were as familiar as in a
child's fairyland, and round about the pale skulls on the
old trees regarded me questioningly. I heard shots, too,
whistling across the clearing-the deep hum of the heavy
crossbow bolts and the sharp report of the muskets. They
passed so close that the hair was stirred on my temples,
but I heeded them only as a deep melody which accompanied
me and gave the measure for my steps.
So in the shine of the silvery fires I came to the seat of
terror and lowered the pike which bore the Prince's head.
With both hands I raised it from its iron spike and laid it
in my leather wallet. As I knelt and finished the task I felt
a sharp blow on the shoulder. One of the shots must have
found its mark, yet I felt no pain, nor did I see blood on
my leather jerkin. But my right arm hung useless. As if
awaking from sleep, I looked around me, and hastened
back into the wood with my precious trophy. My musket I
had left where we found the orchid; in any case it would
serve me no more. Therefore I made all haste to reach the
spot where I had left the fighters.
Here it had become completely still, and even the torches
flickered no more. Only where the bushes had flared there
still lay a shimmer of red glowing ash. By its light the eye
could distinguish on the dark ground the corpses of fighters
and dead dogs; they were mutilated and horribly mauled.
In their midst against the trunk of an old oak lay Belovar.
His skull was cleft and the gushing blood had dyed his white
beard. The double-headed axe at his side and the broad
falchion, which his right hand still gripped firmly, were
blood-red too. At his feet was stretched his trusty Leontodon, its skin torn to shreds by shot and steel, and, dying, it
licked his hand. The old man had fought well, for round
him lay mown a ring of men and dogs. So he had found a
fitting death in the heat and din of the chase in which are
woven death and sensual pleasure. For long I looked into
the eyes of my dead friend, and with my left hand laid a
handful of earth upon his breast. The Great Mother whose
wild, tumultuous festivals he had celebrated is proud of
such sons.

XXVI

To find my way out of the deep forest on to the pasturelands I had only to follow the trail we had blazed on our
advance, and, deep in thought, I walked along the white
path.
It seemed strange to me that during the fight my place had
been with the dead, and I seized upon it as a symbol. Then,
too, I was still under the spell of a dream. This condition
was not entirely new to me; I had experienced it earlier in
the evening hours of days when death had passed me by.
At such times the activity of our minds causes us to be
detached a little from our bodies and we move about like an
escort at the side of our own image. But up till now I had
never felt these fine ties so loosened as here in the wood.
As I dreamingly traced the white trail, the world appeared
like an ebony forest in which there gleamed little ivory
figures. In this way I traversed the marsh beside the
Player's Copse and came out on to the Campagna not far
from the tall poplars.
Here I saw with alarm that the sky was ominously lit
with the glow of fires. On the pasture-lands, too, there was
a sinister hurrying to and fro, and shadows hastened past
me. Perhaps amongst them there were retainers who had
escaped from the fight; but I refrained from hailing them,
for many seemed in a drunken rage. I saw some, too,
brandishing torches, and heard the argot of La Picousiere's
men. Bodies of them laden with booty were already hastening back to the woods. The Coppice of the Red Steer was
brightly lit: there the cries of women mingled with the
laughter of a triumphal feast.
Full of evil foreboding, I hastened to the prairie farm, and
even from afar could not but see that by now even Sombor
and his men had fallen to the rabble. The rich steading
was bright with flames, which had already unroofed house
and barn and byre, and the " glow-worms " danced howling in the firelight. Looting was in full swing; they had
already cut open the beds and filled them like sacks with
booty. Other groups I saw carousing with the contents of
larder and cellar. They had staved in the tops of casks and
drew their liquor with their hats.
The murderers were at the height of their debauch, and
this fact favoured me, for I passed half-sleeping through
their midst. Dazzled by the fire, by killing and with
drunkenness, they moved like the animals one sees at the
bottom of troubled pools. They passed close by me, and
one who bore a felt cap full of brandy raised it towards me
with both hands and stumbled off cursing when I refused his
toast. Thus I made my way through them untouched, as if
I had the vis calcandi supra scorpiones.
When I had left the ruins of the farmstead I noticed
something which increased my alarm still more, for it
seemed to me that the glow of fires was paling in my rear;
but not so much because of the distance as because of a new
and more terrible red which mounted in the sky before me.
Even this part of the pasture-lands was not without movement. I saw, for instance, scattered cattle and herdsmen in
flight, and, above all, in the distance my ear caught the
baying of the red pack, which seemed to be drawing near.
So I hastened my steps, although my heart was filled with
fear at the terrifying rings of fire which I was approaching.
Already I could see the Marble Cliffs rising darkly like sharp
reefs in a sea oflava. Still hearing the hounds at my back, I
clambered up the steep crest from the edge of which our
eyes had so often drunk in the beauty of this earth and felt
its exaltation; now I saw it under the pall of ruin.
Now the extent of the destruction could be read in towering flames, and far and wide the old and lovely towns along
the Marina stood bright in ruin. They sparkled in fire like a
chain of rubies, and from the dark depths of the waters there
rose their shimmering image. The villages and farms, too,
burned throughout the land, and from the proud castles and
the cloisters in the valley the fires shot up. The flames
towered smokelessly like golden palms into the unstirred air,
and from their crowns there fell a golden rain of fire. High
above this whirl of sparks, touched with red light, flocks of
doves and herons which had risen from the reeds soared in
the night. They circled until their plumage was enveloped
in flames; then they sank like flares into the blaze.
Not a sound mounted up to me, as if all space were devoid
of air; the spectacle unfolded in terrible silence. Below me
I could hear neither the children weeping nor the mothers
wailing, nor the war-cry of the clans nor the bellowing of the
cattle in their byres. Of all the terrors of destruction, only
the shimmering golden light of the flames rose up to the
Marble Cliffs. So distant worlds flare up to delight our
eyes in the beauty of their ruin.
Nor did I hear the cry which issued from my mouth.
Only deep within me, as if I myself were engulfed in flames,
did I hear the crackling of this blazing world. And it was
only this gentle crackling that came to my ear as the palaces
fell in ruins and from the harbour store-houses the cornsacks flew high into the air to scatter their glowing contents.
Splitting the earth, the powder magazine at the Cock Gate
blew up. The heavy bell, which had graced the belfry for a
thousand years and had accompanied countless persons
with its tolling in life and death, began to glow, darkly at
first, and then with increasing brightness; finally it crashed
from its bearings, wrecking the tower in its fall. I saw, too,
the pediments of the pillared temples gleam in the red rays,
and from their lofty pedestals the images of the gods with
shield and spear bowed down, to sink without a sound into
the raging flames.
Before this sea of fire I was seized for the second time, and
more strongly than before, by the dreamlike trance. And
since in that state our senses catch many things at once, I
heard, too, the pack drawing incessantlv nearer, with the
rabble at its heels. Already the hounds had almost reached
the foot of the cliffs, and in the pauses I caught the deep bay
of Chiffon Rouge with his pack howling behind him. But
in my state I was unable to stir a foot, and I felt my cry halt
on my lips. Only when the beasts were already climbing
into view did I manage to stir; but the spell remained. So
it seemed as if! floated gently down the marble stairway, and
with a light spring I cleared the hedge which enclosed the
Rue-Garden Hermitage. And behind me in a tight-packed
troop the savage chase rushed jostling down the narrow cliff
path.

XXVII
IN my leap I fell on the soft earth of the lily-bed, and I saw
with amazement that the garden was wonderfully illuminated. The flowers and bushes gleamed in the blue radiance
as if they had been painted on porcelain and brought to life
by a charm.
· Up in the court before the kitchen stood Lampusa and
Erio, intent upon the blazing fires. Brother Otho, too, I
saw in holiday garb on the balcony of the Hermitage;
listening intently, he was looking in the direction of the rock
stairway down which the rabble and the hounds broke
like a torrent. Already they had rushed along the hedge in
a swarm and fists were drumming on the garden gate. Then
I saw Brother Otho smile as he raised and scrutinised the
rock-crystallamp, on which there danced a small blue flame.
He seemed hardly to notice that meanwhile the door had
burst under the blows of the hunters and that the sombre
pack had broken triumphantly into the lily-beds, at its head
Chiffon Rouge with the blades sparkling round his neck.
In my distress I raised by voice to call Brother Otho,
whom I saw still standing and listening on the balcony.
But he seemed not to hear me, for he turned with unmoved
gaze and, carrying the lamp before him, entered the her-

barium. So I then called to Lampusa, who stood before
the entrance to the rock-kitchen, her face lit by the glow of
the fires, and I saw her, with her arms crossed and a grim
smile baring her tooth, glance fleetingly into the tumbling
mass. Then I knew that from her no pity could be expected. So long as I got her daughters with child and struck
down my foe with the sword I was welcome; but to her any
conqueror was a son-in-law just as a man in straits was an
object of contempt.
Then, as Chiffon Rouge gathered himself to spring, it was
Erio who came to my aid. The boy had seized the silver
quaich which still stood in the courtyard after the offering
to the snakes. He struck it, not as of wont with his pearwood spoon, but with an iron fork. Thus he sounded on
the bowl a note which was like a peal of laughter, and
halted man and beast where they stood. I felt a stir in the
clefts beneath the foot of the Marble Cliffs, and then a fine
piping, repeated a hundredfold, filled the air. Through the
blue radiance there shone a bright gleam, and like lightning
flashes the lance-head vipers shot from their crevices. They
glided through the beds like pale whipcords, and from under
their coiling lashes there rose a whirl of petals. Then,
forming a golden circle on the ground, they raised themselves to man's height. In this posture they swayed their
heads like slow-beating pendulums, and their fangs, bared
for the attack, had a deadly gleam like lancets of curved
glass. Accompanying this dance, a gentle hissing like iron
cooling in water pierced the air, and from the beds a
fine clatter of horn arose like the castanets of Moorish
dancers.
Within the circle of this dance the rabble stood as if
turned to stone, and their eyes started from their sockets.
Tallest of all rose the Griffon; with her bright shield she

swayed before Chiffon Rouge, and as if in play encircled
him with the figures of her twining rhythms. The monster
followed the swaying of her undulating dance, trembling
and with bristling coat; then the Griffon seemed to graze him
gently beside the ear, and, shaken by the cramps of death,
with bitten tongue, the bloodhound rolled in agony among
the lilies.
That was the sign for the dancers, who threw themselves
on their victims in golden coils so closely interwoven that
men and dogs seemed to be enveloped by a single scaly body.
And it seemed as if only a single death-cry rose from this
elastic web, and that the subtle choking power of the poison
stifled at once. Then the glinting braids unwound and the
snakes glided gently back to their clefts.
Standing among the beds which were now strewn with
dark corpses swollen with poison, I raised my eyes to Erio.
I saw the child enter the kitchen with Lampusa, who was
carrying him with a mixture of pride and tenderness, and
with a smile he waved back to me as the creaking rock door
shut behind him. Then I felt my blood flow more freely
in my veins, and sensed that the spell which had seized me
was broken. Once again I could move my right hand
freely, and in haste I entered the Hermitage, for I had fears
for Brother Otho.

XXVIII
TRAVERSING the library, I found the books and manuscripts
laid out in perfect order, as one arranges them when going
on a long journey. The round table in the hall bore the
images of the household gods-they were well furnished with

flowers, wine and offerings of food. This room, too, was
festively decorated and glowingly lit by the tall tapers of the
knight Deodat. In it I felt myself as much at home as I
found it bravely decked.
While I was thus gazing at his work, Brother Otho
appeared above from the herbarium, leaving its doors wide
open behind him. We fell into one another's arms and
related our several adventures, as we had used to do in lulls
in battle. When I recounted how I had come upon the
young Prince and drew my trophy from the leather wallet, I
saw Brother Otho 's features grow hard; then with the tears a
wonderful radiance spread over his face. We washed the
head clean from blood and the sweat of death with the wine
that stood beside the food-offering; then we laid it in one of
the great scent amphorre in which there withered the petals of
white lilies and roses of Shiraz.
·
Now Brother Otho filled two goblets with the old wine,
and, having poured the libation, we emptied them and
broke them in fragments on the hearthstone. Thus we
celebrated our departure from the Rue-Garden Hermitage
and with sorrow left the house which had become a warm
shelter for our spiritual life and brotherly companionship.
But we must quit every spot which has given us haven on
this earth.
So, forsaking our possessions, we hastened through the
garden door towards the harbour. I held the amphora in
both arms, and Brother Otho had the mirror and the light
safely against his breast. When we reached the bend where
the path loses itself in the hills towards the cloister of Our
Lady of the Crescent, we halted once again and looked
back to our house. We saw it lying in the shadow of the
Marble Cliffs with its white walls and the broad slated roof
on which the shimmer of distant fires was dully mirrored.

Like dark ribbons, the terrace and the balcony wound round
the light walls. That is how they build in the pleasant
valleys where our people have set their dwellings on the
· southward slope.
As we looked at the Rue-Garden Hermitage its windows
lit up, and from the gable a flame sprang aloft to the highest
edge of the Marble Cliffs. In colour it was like the tiny
flame in the lamp of Nigromontanus-a deep dark blueand its tip was jagged like the cup of the gentian. Thus we
saw the harvest of many years of labour fall a prey to the
elements, and with the house our work sank into the dust.
But on this earth we may not count on seeing our work
brought to completion, and he must be held fortunate whose
resolve survives the struggle without inflicting on him too
much pain. No house is built, no plan laid, of which decay
is not the corner-stone, and what lives eternally in us does
not lie in our works. This we perceived in the flames, and
yet there was joy in their radiance. So we hastened along
the path with fresh strength. It was still dark, yet from the
vineyard terraces and river meadows the morning cool
already rose. Our hearts felt that the fires in the sky had
begun to lose something of their balefulness; they were
mingled with the red of dawn.
On the slope of the hill we saw the cloister of Our Lady
of the Crescent also enveloped in glowing fire. The flames
licked up the tower so that the golden horn of plenty, which
swung upon the spire as weathercock, shone bright. The
high church window on the side of the imaged altar was
already burst, and in the empty space we saw Father
Lampros stand. At his back it glowed like the mouth of a
furnace, and in order to hail him we hastened forward up to
the cloister graves. He stood there in his festal robes, and
on his face we saw a bright and unfamiliar smile 1 as if the


fixed expression which had used to frighten us in him had
melted with the fire. He seemed to be listening, and yet he
did not hear our calls. Then I lifted the Prince's head from
the scent amphora and raised it high with outstretched arm.
When we saw it we shuddered, for the moisture of the wine
had drawn the rose petals so that the head now seemed lit
with dark purple splendour.
But it was yet another sight that held our gaze as I raised
the head-we saw the still undamaged circle of the rose
window fill with green light, and its pattern was strangely
familiar. It seemed to us as if the image had gleamed for
us once before in the plantain Father Lampros had shown
us in the cloister garden; so the secret symbolism of the
spectacle was revealed.
As I stretched the head towards him, the Father turned
his eyes upon us, and slowly raised his hand as at the consecration of the Host, half in greeting and half pointing; on
it the great carnelian glowed in the fire. As if with this
gesture he had given a sign of terrifying power, we saw the
rose window disintegrate in golden sparks, and, with the
arch, tower and horn of plenty collapsed upon him in
mountainous ruin.

XXIX
THE Cock Gate had fallen in; we forced a way over its ruins.
The streets were strewn with fragments of walls and beams,
and round about in the embers lay scattered corpses. We
saw terrible scenes in the cold smoke, and yet a new confidence had come to life in us. Thus the morning brings good
council, and the mere return of the light seemed wonderful to
us after the long night.

In this scene of devastation the old feuds seemed as senseless as memories of a debauch. Nothing but misery had
remained, and the combatants had laid aside their banners
and insignia. We still saw plundering forest bands in the
sidestreets, but by now the mercenaries were taking up
position in pairs. At the Barbican we met Biedenhorn, who
was posting them and assuming an air of great importance.
He stood in the square in his golden cuirass, but without his
helmet, boasting that he had already decorated Christmas
trees-that is, he had seized the first that came to hand and
strung them up on the elms on the town wall. In accordance with military tradition, he had stayed well entrenched
during the disorders; now that the whole town lay in ruins
he emerged to play the man of destiny. Beyond that he had
a good grasp of the situation, because on the round tower of
the Barbican there already waved the banner of the Chief
Ranger, the red boar's head.
It seemed that Biedenhorn had been drinking deep; we
found him in the grim good-humour which made him the
darling of his mercenaries. He was filled with undisguised
delight that it went hard with the writers, versifiers and
philosophers of the Marina. As well as the odour of
creation, he hated wine and its wit-sharpening qualities.
He loved the heavy beer they brew in Britain and the
Netherlands, and considered the people of the Marina
snail-eaters. So he was a man of hard blows and hard
drinking, and believed unshakably that any scruple on this
earth can be overcome by a good pommelling. In this respect
he had something in common with Braquemart, but he
was sounder to this extent, that he despised theory. We had
a regard for him because of his good nature and good
appetite, for, if he were unsuited for his post on the Marina,
who can blame the wolf set to guard sheep ?

By good fortune Biedenhorn was one of those men whose
memory is stirred by a morning glass. Ther~fore we did
not need to call to his mind the moment before the passes
when he with his cuirassiers had been hard-pressed. There
he had been brought down, and we saw the free peasants of
Alta Plana already busy forcing open his coat of mail as if
they were breaking the shell of a lobster at a banquet. By
now the dirk was tickling at his throat; then we cleared a
space around him and his men with our Purple Horse. It
was during this sortie that young Ansgar fell into our hands.
Then Biedenhorn knew us from our Mauretanian times, and
so it came bout that he required no pressing when we asked
him for a ship. There is no gainsaying that the hour of
catastrophe is the Mauretanian's hour. He placed at our
disposal the brigantine which he held in the harbour, and
detailed a group of mercenaries to accompany us as escort.
The streets leading to the harbour were packed with
fleeing people. Yet it appeared that all did not wish to
leave the city, for we saw the smoke of sacrifices already
rising from the ruins of the temples and heard hymns rising
from the wreckage of the churches. In the chapel of the
Sagrada Familia, hardby the harbour, the organ had
escaped undamaged, and its mighty chords accompanied
the hymn the congregation sang:
Princes are men of women born,
And turn again to lowly dust;
Their councils' might is overborne,
And in the grave their state is lost.
Since no man then can give us aid,
We turn to God in our great need.

At the harbour there was a press of people laden with the
n;mains of their belongings. But the ships for Burgundy
and Alta Plana were already overladen, and each skiff
which the boatmen pushed off from the quay with their
poles was followed by a loud cry of despair. Amidst all
this misery Biedenhorn 's brigantine-as if under a tabuswayed at its mooring buoy, which was picked out in black,
red and black. She shone with dark-blue varnish and
copper fittings, and when I gave the order to push off the
crew drew the covers from the red-leather cushions of the
thwarts. While the soldiers kept the crowd at a distance
with their pikes we succeeded in shipping some women and
children, until our deck was only a handbreadth above
water. Then the crew rowed out of the inner basin behind
the harbour wall; beyond it a fresh wind caught us and drove
us forward towards the mountains of Alta Plana.
The cool of the morning still lay over the waters, and the
eddying winds drew cat's-paws on the surface of its glassy
green mirror. But the sun was already pushing up above
the jagged peaks of the snow-covered mountains, and the
Marble Cliffs rose gleaming out of the lowland mists. We
looked back to them and let our hands trail in the water,
which turned blue in the sunlight, as if the shadows had
taken refuge in its depths.
The amphora we treasured carefully. We did not yet
know the fate of this head which we bore with us, and which
we delivered to the Christians when they raised the great
cathedral on the Marina from its ruins. They buried it
beneath the foundation stone. But before that day Brother
Otho addressed to it an eburnum in the chapel of the
Sunmyras's ancestral home.

XXX
THE men of Alta Plana had moved up to the frontier when
the glow of fires lit the sky. Therefore even before landing
on the shore we saw young Ansgar, and he waved gaily to us.
We rested a little with his men while he sent a messenger
to his father; then we mounted slowly to the farm in the
valley. When we reached the passes we halted for a time
at the great Tomb of the Heroes and before many another
of the small monuments that stand there upon the battlefield. In so doing we came to the narrow pass where we
had cut a way for Biedenhorn and his men. At this spot
Ansgar gave us his hand anew and said that from now on of
all his possessions half was ours.
At midday we caught sight of the farmstead in the shelter
of its oak grove. On seeing it we felt that we had come
home, for, as in the north of our land, we found united
under the shelter of its broad roof barns, stables and house.
The door was wide open and the sun danced on the threshing-floor. The cattle looked down upon it over their
feeding-racks, wearing to-day upon their horns trinkets of
gold. The great hall was decked for a holiday, and from
out of the circle of men and women awaiting us stepped old
Ansgar to bid us welcome.
Then we passed through the wide open door as if into the
haven of our father's house.

