I

Mother dear,

Your sweet letter only reached me last night.

Don’t  worry  about  your  handwriting;  it  has  no  secrets  for  me.  Even  
when  there’s  some  word  that’s
unclear, I can make out what you mean when your pen runs on, or think I do. I 
re-read your letters again
and again; they are so simple, so good; just like you.

I  even  love  that  paper  you  use!  I  recognize  it;  it’s  sold  by  old  
Creglingi,  and  brings  back  to  mind  the
main street of our village back home, twisty but clean. I can picture where it 
broadens into an open space
with, in the middle Creglingi’s shop, a low little place with a roof like a 
Calabrian hat. He is inside, busy
selling  papers,  nails,  grog,  cigars  or  stamps,  slow  but  flustered,  
like  a  man  in  a  hurry,  serving  ten
customers or really only serving one while keeping a wary eye on the other 
nine.

Do  give  him  my  regards,  please.  Whoever’d  have  thought  I’d  ever  want 
 to  see  that  crusty  old  miser
again?

Now, Mother, you mustn’t think it’s bad here; I just feel bad myself! I can’t 
get used to being away from
you  so  long.  What  makes  it  worse  is  the  thought  of  you  being  
lonely  in  that  big  place  so  far  out  of  the
village  where  you  will  insist  on  staying  just  because  it  belongs  to  
us.  And  I  feel  such  a  need  to  breathe
some of our good pure air coming straight from its Maker. Here the air is thick 
and smoky. On my arrival I
saw it hanging over the city like a huge cone, like winter smoke in our 
fireplace at home, but we know it’s
purer there at least. The other men here are all or nearly all quite content, 
not realizing one can live so
much better elsewhere.

I felt happier here as a student, because my father was still alive and made 
much better arrangements
for me than I ever realized! Of course he had more money. My room is so tiny it 
makes me miserable. At
home it could be a goose-run.

Mother,  wouldn’t  I  do  better  at  home?  I  can’t  send  money  because  I  
have  none.  On  the  first  of  the
month I was given a hundred francs; that may seem a lot to you, but here it 
goes nowhere. I try as hard as
I can, but the money won’t do.

I’m beginning to realize, too, how hard it is to get on in business, just as 
hard as to study, as our notary
Mascotti  says.  Very  hard  indeed!  My  pay  may  be  envied,  and  I  
realize  I  don’t  earn  it.  My  fellow  lodger
gets  one  hundred  and  twenty  francs  a  month;  he’s  been  at  Maller’s  
for  about  four  years  and  does  work
which I could only take on in a year or two. I’ve no hope or chance of a rise 
in pay before.

Wouldn’t I do better at home? I could help you, work in the fields myself even, 
and get a chance to read
poetry in peace under an oak tree, breathing that good undefiled air of ours.

I want to tell you all about everything here! My troubles are made worse by the 
way my colleagues and
superiors treat me. Maybe they look down on me because I don’t dress well. 
They’re just coxcombs, the
lot  of  them,  who  spend  half  their  day  in  front  of  their  mirrors.  
An  ignorant  lot!  Why,  if  someone  handed
me any Latin classic, I could comment on it all; but they wouldn’t even know 
its name.

There, those are my troubles, and one word from you can cancel them all. Say 
the word, and I’ll be with
you in a few hours.

After writing this letter I feel calmer, as if you’d already given me 
permission to leave and I were about
to pack.

A hug from your affectionate son,
Alfonso


II

S SIX O’CLOCK FINISHED STRIKING, Luigi Miceni put down his pen and slipped on 
his overcoat, short and
smart. On his desk something seemed out of order. He arranged the edges of a 
pile of papers exactly

in line with it. Then he glanced at the order again and found it perfect. 
Papers were arranged so neatly in
every pigeon-hole that they looked like booklets; pens were all at the same 
level alongside the ink pots.

Alfonso  had  done  nothing  but  sit  at  his  place  for  half-an-hour  and  
gaze  at  Miceni  with  admiration.  He
could not manage to get his own papers in order. There were a few obvious 
attempts at arranging them in
piles,  but  the  pigeon-holes  were  in  disorder;  one  was  too  full  and  
untidy,  the  other  empty.  Miceni  had
explained how to divide papers by content or destination, and Alfonso had 
understood, but, from inertia
after the day’s work, he was incapable of making any more effort than was 
absolutely necessary.

Miceni, when just about to go, asked him, “Haven’t you been invited round by 
Signor Maller yet?”

Alfonso  shook  his  head;  after  his  outburst  in  that  letter  to  his  
mother  such  an  invitation  would  have
been a nuisance, nothing more.

Miceni  was  the  reason  Alfonso  had  alluded  in  his  letter  to  the  
haughtiness  of  his  superiors,  for  this
invitation was often mentioned by Miceni. It was customary for every new 
employee to be invited home to
the Mallers, and Miceni was sorry Alfonso had not been asked, as this first 
omission might mean the end
of a custom to which he was attached.

Miceni was a frail young man with an unusually small head covered with very 
short curly black hair. He
dressed as if he could allow himself a few luxuries and was as neatly kept as 
his desk.

It was not only in dress that Alfonso differed from his colleague. He was 
clean, yet everything he wore,
from  his  freshly-ironed  but  yellowish  collar  to  his  grey  waistcoat,  
showed  untrained  taste  and  a  wish  to
avoid  spending.  Miceni,  who  was  vain,  would  tease  him  by  saying  that 
 his  only  luxuries  were  his  bright
blue eyes, their effect spoiled, according to Miceni, by a thick, ill-kept, 
chestnut-coloured  beard.  Though
tall and strong, he seemed too tall when standing, and, since he held his body 
bent slightly forward as if
to ensure balance, he looked weak and rather vague.

Sanneo, the head of the correspondence department, now hurried in. He was about 
thirty, tall and thin,
with  light,  faded  hair.  Every  part  of  his  long  body  was  in  constant 
 movement;  behind  his  glasses  moved
pale restless eyes.

He asked Alfonso for a book of addresses and, as the word did not occur to him 
at once, tried to show
the  shape  of  the  book  with  his  hands,  trembling  with  impatience.  On  
getting  it,  as  he  was  nervously
flicking over the pages, he gave Miceni a polite smile and asked him to stay on 
as he had more work for
him.  Miceni  at  once  took  off  his  overcoat,  carefully  hung  it  up,  
sat  down,  took  his  pen  and  awaited
instructions.

Alfonso  did  not  like  Signor  Sanneo’s  brusqueness,  but  he  had  to  
admire  him.  Very  active,  though
physically  weak,  Sanneo  had  a  formidable  memory  and  knew  the  tiniest  
detail  of  every  little  business
deal, however long ago. Always alert, he wielded his pen with speed and 
ability. On some days he would
work  ten  hours  nonstop,  indefatigably  organizing  and  registering.  He  
would  discuss  some  petty  detail
intensely, as Alfonso knew from copies of letters he happened to see.

“Why  does  he  put  so  much  into  it?”  Alfonso  would  ask  himself,  not  
understanding  the  other’s  passion
for his work.

Sanneo   had   a   defect   which   Alfonso   learnt   of   from   Miceni.   He 
  was   inclined   to   pick   favourites
capriciously and persecute those out of favour. He seemed quite incapable of 
liking more than one person
in          the office at a time. Just then his favourite was Miceni.

Signor Maller opened the door and, after making sure Sanneo was there, entered 
the room. Alfonso had
never seen him before. He was thick-set, rather tall. His breathing could be 
heard at times, though he did
not  suffer  from  shortness  of  breath.  He  was  almost  bald,  with  a  
thick  beard,  cut  short,  fair  to  red.  He
wore gold-rimmed glasses. Red skin gave his head a rather coarse look.

He  did  not  glance  at  the  two  clerks,  who  had  got  to  their  feet,  
or  answer  their  greeting.  Handing  a
telegram to Sanneo with a smile, he said: “The Mortgage Bank! We’re in on it!”

This message from Rome had been expected for days and meant that Maller & 
Company was entrusted
with underwriting the share issue for the new Mortgage Bank.

Sanneo  understood  and  went  pale.  That  message  deprived  him  of  the  
hours  of  rest  on  which  he  had
counted. He controlled himself with a great effort and stood listening 
attentively to the instructions given
him.

The  issue  was  to  take  place  two  days  later,  but  Maller  &  Company  
had  to  know  the  names  of
subscribers  by  tomorrow  evening.  Signor  Maller  mentioned  some  companies 
 to  which  he  particularly
wanted offers sent. Others were to be addressed to clients to whom other 
similar offers had already been
made. That very night some hundred telegrams were to be sent, prepared many 
days in advance without
addresses and leaving blank the number of shares, which were to vary according 
to the importance of the
company.  But  the  work  which  would  so  prolong  office  hours  consisted  
of  letters  of  confirmation  to  be
written out and dispatched at once.

“I’ll  be  back  at  eleven,”  concluded  Signor  Maller.  “Please  leave  on  
my  desk  a  list  of  the  companies
telegraphed and a note of the number of shares offered them, and I’ll sign the 
letters.”

He went off with a polite greeting not addressed to anyone in particular.

Sanneo,  who  had  now  had  time  to  resign  himself,  said  jovially  to  
the  two  young  men,  “I  hope  we’ll  be


done by ten o’clock or before, so that when Signor Maller gets back he’ll find 
the offices empty. Now to
work.”

He  told  Miceni  to  tell  the  other  correspondence  clerks  and  Alfonso,  
the  dispatch  clerk,  about  the  new
task, then hurried out.

Miceni  re-opened  his  closed  ink-pot,  took  a  packet  of  writing  paper  
from  a  drawer  and  flung  it  on  the
table.

“If I’d gone off punctually on my own business, they’d never have laid hands on 
me to make me spend
the night here.”

Alfonso walked off with a yawn. A dark narrow passage joined his room to the 
main corridor of offices,
still lit, with doors all alike of black frames and frosted glass. Those of 
Signor Maller and Signor Cellani,
the legal adviser, had their names in black on a gilt slip. In the harsh light 
the deserted corridor, its walls
painted in imitation marble,  the  door  jambs  shadowless,  looked  like  one  
of  those  complicated  studies  in
perspective, made only of lines and sight.

At the end of the passage was a door smaller than the others. Opening this and 
leaning against the door
post, Alfonso called, “Signor Sanneo says we’re all staying till ten tonight.”

“What?”

The  question  was  equivalent  to  a  reply.  Alfonso  entered  the  room  and 
 found  himself  facing  a  thick-set
youth  with  wavy  chestnut  hair  and  a  low  but  well-shaped  forehead,  
who  had  got  to  his  feet  and  was
leaning in a defiant attitude, with fists clenched defiantly, on the long table 
at which he wrote.

This was Starringer, who had rejected all other promotion to take the vacant 
post as dispatch manager,
thus getting at once the higher pay he urgently needed.

“Till ten? When do we eat then? I’ve worked all day and have a right to leave. 
I’m not staying!”
“Shall I tell Signor Sanneo that?” asked Alfonso timidly, always timid with 
those who were not.

“Yes … no, I’ll tell ’im myself!” That resolute “Yes” meant that he was off 
whatever the consequences;
the  rest  he  said  in  a  lower  tone.  Then  suddenly  he  realized  that  
he  could  not  avoid  this  new  chore  and
burst into a violent rage. He blamed the correspondence clerks, yelled that 
when he himself was a clerk
(a period he often referred to), they all worked hard during the day but went 
home at regular hours in the
evening. That day he had seen Miceni gossiping in the passage and twiddling at 
the lock on Ballina’s door.
Why  did  they  waste  time  like  that?  Scarlet  in  the  face,  veins  
swelling  on  his  forehead,  he  advanced  on
Alfonso. When he spoke of the clerks, he held out an arm and pointed at the 
correspondence department.
Alfonso explained that they were not being kept back for any normal work, but 
that a new job had been
given them at the last minute. Starringer’s rage did not lessen, but he stopped 
shouting. “Ah, so that’s it!”
he said, and he shrugged his shoulders exaggeratedly.

Letters written during that day lay on the table, some already sealed. Taking 
no more notice of Alfonso,
Signor Starringer seized one, sat down and with a trembling hand copied the 
address into a book in front
of him.

Sitting in the passage was a boy called Giacomo, who had joined the bank on the 
day after Alfonso. He
was  fourteen,  but  his  pink  and  white  skin  and  shortness  made  him  
look  no  more  than  ten.  Although
Giacomo laughed and joked all day with the other messengers, Alfonso was sure 
he was homesick for his
native village of Magnago, and felt fond of him.

“Till ten tonight,” he said, touching his chin.
The boy smiled and looked flattered.

Signor  Maller  came  out  of  his  room.  He  had  put  on  his  overcoat,  
and  its  cape  was  hanging  from  his
shoulders.  This  made  him  seem  taller  and  slimmer.  Alfonso  said  “Good  
evening,”  and  Signor  Maller
replied with a nod to him and Giacomo. He had a way of making collective 
greetings.

Santo, Signor Maller’s personal messenger, followed his master along the length 
of the passage to open
the  front  door  for  him.  He  was  a  little  man,  not  old,  bald  and  
with  a  fair  beard  colourless  in  patches.
People  said  he  led  an  idle  life,  as  he  had  nothing  to  do  but  look 
 after  Signor  Maller,  while  other
messengers served the offices.

On returning to his own room, Alfonso found Miceni already writing away. The 
latter was rather short-
sighted and almost touched the paper with his nose as he wrote.

The telegrams, written out but unaddressed, were on Alfonso’s desk; so was a 
letter in Signor Sanneo’s
handwriting  to  be  copied  in  confirmation,  and  finally  a  list  of  five 
 companies  to  which  offers  were  to  be
sent.

“Only five?”

“Yes,” replied Miceni. “The pay-clerks are writing some out too. We’ll be done 
by half-past nine or so.”
He had not raised his head; his pen continued running on over the paper.

Alfonso put an address on a telegram, then transcribed it on to a letter. He 
began reading the telegram;
it  gave  a  brief  account  of  why  the  Mortgage  Bank  was  founded  and  
hinted  discreetly  at  a  promise  of
Government  support  and  mentioned  how  difficult  it  was  to  join  the  
syndicate.  “We  offer  you  as  priority

…”, and a blank space followed, which Alfonso filled in with the number of 
shares offered. The letter was
much  more  detailed.  It  went  into  the  need  for  new  large  banks  in  
Italy,  and  how  the  new  bank  was
therefore certain to flourish.

Miceni  told  him  to  jot  the  first  letter  down  fast  as  it  was  to  be 
 written  out  by  the  other  clerks,  but
Alfonso  was  incapable  of  copying  fast.  He  had  to  re-read  every  
phrase  a  number  of  times  before
transcribing  it.  Between  words  he  would  let  his  thoughts  run  on  to  
other  subjects  and  then  find  himself
with pen in hand, forced to cancel some part in which he had absent-mindedly 
deviated from the original.
Even  when  he  managed  to  turn  his  whole  attention  to  his  work,  it  
did  not  proceed  with  the  speed  of


Miceni’s because he could not get the knack of copying mechanically. When he 
was attentive, his thoughts
were  always  on  the  meaning  of  what  he  was  copying,  and  that  held  
him  up.  For  a  quarter  of  an  hour
nothing was heard but the squeak of pens and from time to time the sound of 
Miceni turning pages.

Suddenly the door opened with a crash. On the threshold, standing rigid for an 
instant or two, appeared
Ballina, the clerk who was waiting for Alfonso to hand over Sanneo’s letter so 
that he could make other
copies from it.

“What about that letter?”

He  was  a  handsome  fellow  with  a  clever,  rather  sly  look,  a  pair  of 
 Victor  Emmanuel  moustaches,  but
with an untrimmed beard. He was smoking, and the smoke he did not blow away—he 
would gladly have
absorbed  it  to  relish  it  the  more—was  filling  his  moustaches  and  
covering  his  face  to  the  eyes.  His
working  jacket  must  once  have  been  white,  but  was  now  dirty  yellow,  
except  for  the  cuffs  which  were
quite  black  from  nib  cleaning.  He  worked  in  a  little  room  with  a  
door  on  to  the  small  passage,  like
Miceni’s room.

Miceni  raised  his  head  with  a  friendly  smile.  Ballina  was  always  
popular,  as  he  was  a  jester,  the  bank
jester. But that evening he was not in form and was complaining. He had been 
working in his information
office  till  then,  and  now  he  found  he  had  to  do  other  work;  he  
did  not  even  know  if  there  would  be  any
supper  left  for  him  that  night.  He  was  pretending  to  be  more  
miserable  than  he  really  was.  He  once
amazed Alfonso, whom Ballina called a sponge, by telling him that towards the 
end of the month he lived
on Scott’s Emulsion given him by a doctor relative. He had well-to-do relatives 
who must have been a help
because he was always speaking well of them.

Sanneo came in, rushed as ever; he was followed by the serious adolescent’s 
face of Giacomo, carrying
a big pile of paper at which he was staring with excess of zeal.

Sanneo asked Ballina rather roughly why he was not yet writing.

“Well …” exclaimed Ballina with a shrug, “I’m waiting for the letter to copy 
out.”

“You’ve  not  had  it  yet?”  Then,  remembering  that  Alfonso  was  supposed  
to  hand  it  over,  he  went  on,
“Hasn’t he done even one yet?”

Alfonso, shaken by the Sanneo’s angry look, rose to his feet. Miceni, still 
sitting, observed that he had
not yet finished one either. Sanneo turned his back on Alfonso, looked at 
Miceni’s letter and asked him to
hand  it  over  to  Ballina  as  soon  it  was  done.  He  went  out  in  the  
same  rush,  preceded  by  Ballina,  who
wanted to show that he had gone straight back to his own room, and followed by 
Giacomo strutting and
banging his feet on the floor to make himself sound important.

A  few  minutes  later  Miceni  handed  Ballina  the  letter  for  copying.  
From  the  next  room  Alfonso  heard
Ballina’s curses, his voice thick with rage at seeing that the letter covered 
four pages.

In  an  hour  or  so  Miceni  had  finished  his  work.  Very  calmly  he  
settled  his  clothes,  carefully  put  on  his
hat as though he would never take it off, picked up the telegrams and 
letters—including the two written
by Alfonso—which he wanted to hand over to Signor Sanneo as he passed, and left 
humming.

In  the  complete  quiet  work  went  faster.  To  keep  his  attention  on  
his  work,  Alfonso  was  in  the  habit
when alone of declaiming aloud, for lack of anything more interesting, the 
letter he was writing. This one
was particularly suitable for declamation as it was full of reverberating words 
and big figures. By reading
out  a  phrase  and  repeating  it  as  he  transcribed  it,  he  reduced  the  
effort  of  writing  because  he  needed
only the memory of the sound to direct his pen.

To his surprise he suddenly found that he had finished and went straight off to 
Sanneo, fearing he was
already late. Sanneo kept the telegrams and told him to put the letters on 
Signor Maller’s desk.

The floor of Signor Maller’s room was covered with grey carpets during the 
winter. The furniture was
also dark grey, with arms and legs of black wood. Of the three gas brackets 
only one was lit, and at half
pressure. In the dimness the room looked gloomier than ever. Alfonso always 
felt ill at ease there. He put
down the letters on top of another pile already on the desk for signature and 
went out without making a
sound, as if his chief had been present.

He could have left now but was held back by exhaustion. He thought of putting 
his desk in order but sat
there inert, daydreaming. Ever since he had become a clerk, deprived of the 
physical exercise of country
life and mentally stifled in his work, his great vitality had taken to creating 
imaginary worlds.

The  centre  of  these  dreams  was  Alfonso  himself,  all  self-mastery,  
wealth  and  happiness.  Only  when
daydreaming was he aware of the extent of his ambitions. To make himself into 
someone overwhelmingly
clever and rich was not enough. In his dreams he changed his father. Unable to 
bring him back to life, he
turned him into a rich nobleman who had married his mother for love, though 
Alfonso loved her so much
that  even  in  his  dreams  she  was  left  as  she  was.  Actually  he  had  
almost  entirely  forgotten  his  father,
which accounted for his giving himself the blue blood needed for his daydreams. 
He would picture himself
meeting  Maller,  Sanneo,  Cellani  with  that  blood  and  those  riches.  
Then,  of  course,  roles  were  entirely
reversed. It was no longer he but they who were timid! But he treated them 
graciously, with true nobility,
not as they had treated him.

Santo came to warn him that Signor Maller was asking for him. Surprised and 
rather alarmed, Alfonso
returned to the room where he had been shortly before. Now it was all lit up; 
his chief’s bare head and
red beard glistened in the glare.

Signor Maller was sitting with both hands on his desk.

“I’m glad to see you’re still here, a proof of diligence, which anyway I’d 
never doubted.”

Remembering Sanneo’s outburst a short time before, Alfonso glanced at him 
fearing that he was being
ironic, but his chief ’s red face was serious, with blue eyes staring at a far 
corner of the desk.

“Thanks!” muttered Alfonso.


“I’d be pleased if you could come to my home tomorrow evening for some tea.”
“Thanks!” repeated Alfonso.

Suddenly Maller, as if he’d had difficulty in making up his mind, looked at him 
and spoke less carelessly.
“Why d’you make your mother desperate by writing to her that you’re not content 
with me or with you?

Don’t look so surprised! I’ve seen a letter from your mother to our 
housekeeper. The good lady complains
a lot about me, but about you too. Read it and see!”

He proffered a piece of paper which Alfonso recognized as coming from 
Creglingi’s shop. A glance told
that it really was in his mother’s handwriting. He blushed, ashamed of the ugly 
writing and bad style. In
some vague way he felt offended that the letter was being made public.

“I’ve  changed  my  mind  now,”  he  stuttered.  “I’m  quite  content!  You  
know  how  it  is  …  distance  …
homesickness …”

“I  understand,  I  understand!  But  we’re  men,  you  know!”  He  repeated  
the  phrase  a  number  of  times,
then  warmly  assured  Alfonso  that  he  was  well-liked  in  the  office  not 
 only  by  himself  and  Signor  Cellani
but  by  the  head  of  the  correspondence  department,  Signor  Sanneo,  and  
by  everyone  else,  all  of  whom
hoped  to  see  him  make  rapid  progress.  In  dismissing  him  Signor  
Maller  repeated,  “We’re  men,  you
know!” and gave him a friendly nod. Alfonso went out, feeling confused.

He  had  to  admit  that  Signor  Maller  seemed  decent  enough,  and  easily  
impressed,  Alfonso  felt  his
position in the bank to be improved; at last someone was taking notice of him!

But he regretted not having behaved more frankly and sincerely; why had he 
denied truths confessed to
his mother? He should have answered his chief’s kindness by telling him frankly 
of his hopes, and thereby
had some chance of seeing some of them satisfied; anyway he would have got on 
to friendlier terms, since
no one is ever offended by being asked for protection. He told himself he would 
be more frank on some
other occasion, which would soon come up after this.

Meanwhile, to avoid contradictions between what he had told Signor Maller and 
what he had written to
his mother, he wrote to her again, saying that his prospects at the bank were 
improving and that for the
moment he renounced open air, oak trees and rest. Either he would return home 
rich or never return at
all.


III

HE LANUCCIS,  with  whom  Alfonso  lodged,  lived  in  a  small  apartment  in  
a  house  in  the  old  town  near
San Giusto. From there he had more than quarter of an hour’s walk to the 
office.

Just   before   her   marriage   Signora   Lucinda   Lanucci   had   spent   a  
 summer   in   Alfonso’s   village   as
housekeeper to a family. She had then made the acquaintance of Alfonso’s 
mother, who had recommended
her  son.  This  introduction  from  Signora  Carolina  might  have  been  
worthless  had  the  Lanuccis  not  been
looking  for  someone  to  rent  a  small  extra  room  in  their  house.  And  
so  Alfonso  came  along  at  the  right
moment and was welcomed.

A few years before, seduced by a longing for independence, Signor Lanucci had 
left a job which was not
particularly  good  but  did  keep  his  family  adequately,  and  had  begun  
acting  as  agent  for  a  variety  of
companies representing almost every conceivable article. But though the poor 
man wrote off every day to
companies whose addresses he took from the back pages of newspapers, he still 
earned less than he had
before as a clerk. And so now the family’s finances were so precarious that 
their mood was sad.

This had increased Alfonso’s homesickness, for sad people make places sad.

They treated him affectionately, but Signor Lanucci aroused Alfonso’s pity, 
particularly when he saw the
poor  man  making  an  effort  to  be  polite,  to  smile  and  to  show  
interest  in  his  affairs,  though  Alfonso
realized that he himself was only a source of revenue.

Signora  Lanucci,  long  accustomed  to  consoling  her  husband  for  his  
fruitless  efforts,  soon  assumed  a
similar attitude to Alfonso’s and came to take such an intense interest in the 
young man’s affairs that she
spoke  of  them  as  if  they  were  her  own.  Signor  Maller’s  invitation,  
which  Alfonso  mentioned,  aroused  a
most flattering reaction in her; she spoke of it as if it were sure to make the 
clerk’s fortune; so little was
she used to good fortune that it took her by surprise.

Lucinda was about forty but, being small and plump with thick grey hair, looked 
more. She had never
been beautiful. The small dowry she had brought her husband had melted away in 
some speculation with
Turkish  shares.  She  was  bright  and  lively  and  loved  to  talk;  her  
pale  suffering  face  had  won  Alfonso’s
sympathy at once.

She  seemed  devoted  to  her  husband;  not  so  devoted,  apparently,  to  
her  son  Gustavo,  aged  eighteen,
whom she called a rough diamond; her chief affection went to her daughter 
Lucia, aged sixteen, who did
dressmaking  in  private  houses.  The  mother  earned  more  than  all  of  
them  as  a  teacher  in  an  elementary
school,   but they could not have made ends meet without Lucia’s earnings. 
Signora Lucinda was desperate
at seeing her daughter forced to spend her youth at a sewing machine, while 
hers had been spent better,
for she had come from well-to-do people and had studied and amused herself. 
Their means now were so
narrow that she had been unable to do anything about Lucia’s education; but she 
did not complain of this,
unaware that the results corresponded to the outlay. Intelligent though she 
was, Signora Lucinda did not
notice how insipid her daughter’s prattle was. She saw her as beautiful, while 
actually Lucia was thin and
anaemic like the rest of the family, with fair reddish colouring and, because 
of her thinness, a mouth that
seemed to reach her ears. The mother’s behaviour was like that of a woman of 
the people, and she even
swore, all quite deliberately, for she was an extreme democrat; her daughter 
had quickly picked up, from
the middle-class homes she frequented, ladylike mannerisms quite out of place 
in her own home. Gustavo,
rough  and  simple,  often  jeered  at  her  for  it,  earning  his  mother’s  
dislike  more  by  that  than  by  his
wastefulness.

Alfonso  found  his  black  suit  laid  out  on  the  bed,  carefully  folded.  
Signora  Lanucci  had  thought  of
everything, from tie to gleaming boots ready at the foot of the bed. Alfonso 
too felt excited by the visit he
was about to make. Though he had not Signora Lanucci’s illusions about it, they 
were contagious, and he
was more agitated than seemed necessary. He took off his everyday suit and 
flung it on the bed as though
he would never have to put it on again.

On  entering  the  small  living-room  where  the  family  ate,  he  almost  
imagined  himself  to  be  really  well
dressed. Signora Lanucci looked at him and admired his appearance. Gustavo, 
filthy, came up to him with
a benevolent smile, his mouth full. This young gentleman aroused no envy in him 
as his own desires were
quite different: a few coins in his pocket for an evening at a tavern, no more. 
Gustavo was then attached
to a copying office and apt to criticize his new job where there was little pay 
but a lot of work.

With his clean shirt, high collar, well-brushed thick hair, black suit, Alfonso 
looked quite handsome. He
was  holding  in  one  hand  some  light-coloured  gloves  bought  that  day  
on  Miceni’s  advice.  A  more  expert
eye  would  have  noticed  shiny  patches  on  the  black  suit,  that  its  
cut  was  not  modern,  its  collar  too  open
and of poor stuff that yielded to the stiff shirt. But the Lanuccis were not 
trained to such details.

Lucia  had  now  stopped  eating  and  moved  a  little  away  from  the  
table,  leaning  on  the  back  of  a  chair
with  crossed  hands—she  showed  no  sign  of  noticing  Alfonso’s  special  
outfit.  They  were  on  good  terms,
and when he was at home she served him willingly. She liked to make herself 
useful to him, because he
always  thanked  her  so  pleasantly  for  all  she  did.  Their  exchange  of  
courtesies  verged  on  the  excessive,
now that she had at last found someone whom she could treat in the way she had 
noticed people treating
each other in the homes where she worked. Her mother encouraged her. Gustavo 
would say that she was
letting off steam on Alfonso.

Signor Lanucci must have been over fifty. He dyed his hair, because he had free 
samples of dye sent by
companies  he  had  offered  to  represent;  his  hair  was  black  where  it  
was  not  whitened  by  age,  and
yellowish where it would have been white without dye. He wore a long full 
beard, its colour blending with


his  hair.  To  read  in  the  evenings  he  put  on  a  clumsy  pair  of  
spectacles,  so  wide  between  his  small  grey
eyes that they almost fell off his nose.

He  complimented  Alfonso  and  asked  him  to  sit  next  to  him,  an  honour 
 no  longer  granted  to  Gustavo
since  the  youth  had  lost  the  decent  job  they  had  obtained  for  him  
with  great  efforts.  This  was  the  only
punishment the father could inflict, having neither brain nor energy for any 
other.

Gustavo,  without  a  word—he  had  a  grudge  against  his  father  for  
having  one  against  him—handed
Alfonso a letter. Alfonso did not open it very eagerly. So preoccupied was he 
that he had not the patience
to  decipher  his  mother’s  shaky  handwriting,  and  he  put  the  letter  
back  into  his  pocket  after  a  quick
glance.

“That didn’t take long!” said Signora Lanucci with a hint of reproval.

“It’s very short!” replied Alfonso flushing, “She sends you her best wishes.”

The old man had begun describing his day’s work. It was the same tale every 
evening. To justify himself
to his wife he would describe how much he had canvassed for business. That day 
he had earned, all told,
a big packet of needles sent by a small factory as agent’s fee for some 
business he had arranged for them.
In  the  morning  with  a  letter  of  recommendation  from  a  friend  who  
was  a  merchant  and  whom  he
considered to have influence in the town, he had called at a few private houses 
trying to sell Cognac, but
without result. The sample made a show on the table. At midday he had got some 
mail, comprising that
packet  of  needles  and  a  letter  from  an  insurance  company  making  him  
their  representative.  That  very
afternoon the old man had set off in search of people willing to be insured, 
going round town with a list of
acquaintances,  which  he  always  carried  with  him.  Friends  had  explained 
 that  they  did  not  want  to  be,
already  were  or  could  not  afford  to  be  insured:  others  either  did  
not  see  him—Lanucci  liked  calling  on
people who kept servants to open their front doors—or sent him off with a few 
dry words as to a beggar.

This  comment  was  not  Lanucci’s,  who  told  his  tale  with  the  calm  of  
perseverance,  ready  to  begin  all
over  again  the  next  day.  But  later  that  day  Lanucci  had  written  to  
the  insurance  company  telling  them
that,  though  he  had  not  actually  fixed  anything  yet,  he  still  had  
high  hopes,  and  that  meanwhile  the
agent’s fee was too low in view of the difficulty of conducting business.

“Oh dear, that postage!” murmured Signora Lanucci with a wink at Alfonso, to 
whom  she  had already
spoken of her husband’s hopes and manias.

But  she  had  followed  the  account  with  close  attention,  and  her  eyes  
shone  with  indignation  at  all  his
vain efforts. Signor Lanucci spoke slowly, talking continually as he ate, 
putting his fork down after every
mouthful and emphasizing each syllable to make his own activity and astuteness 
clearer. He repeated all
the  arguments  he  had  used.  To  one  person  he  had  talked  of  the  
advantages  of  insurance  in  general  and
how wrong it was not to insure oneself, to another—some friend or known 
philanthropist—of his own need
for encouragement. To all he had praised the company he represented. Signora 
Lanucci listened to him,
sitting slightly back from the table, chewing little bits of bread very fast 
with her front teeth.

Any remark by his family was apt to provoke Signor Lanucci to argument.

“‘Oh dear, the postage,’ did you say? Why? You’ve an odd way of looking at 
things! Why, I couldn’t do
any business at all …”

Resentment  accumulated  during  the  day  now  burst  loose.  He  sat  stock  
still  in  his  chair,  but  his  lips
were trembling. Gustavo grinned into his plate.

Alfonso soothed the old man; he understood his anguish since he too found 
himself in financial straits
from time to time. He told him that his wife was only joking and he must not 
take offence, and that she
really longed to see his affairs prosper more than anyone.

Alfonso’s words started Lanucci on a completely different train of  thought:  
for it now occurred to him
that  the  comforter  might  become  a  client,  and  he  began  asking  if  
Alfonso  had  ever  had  any  idea  of
insuring himself—against accidents say?

Signora Lanucci protested.

“Oh! Can’t you leave him in peace with your business?”

Lanucci   looked   very   put   out:   Alfonso   was   both   embarrassed   
himself   and   distressed   at   the
embarrassment of Lanucci, whom he supposed already regretted his tactless 
question.

“Do  let  him  go  on  talking,”  he  said  to  Signora  Lanucci.  “He’s  so  
interesting,  and  after  all  it  costs
nothing.”

He thus managed to reduce the matter to something purely academic.

“Yes,  indeed!”  emphasized  Lanucci.  “I’ll  make  him  insure  himself  
either  through  me  or  through
somewhere else! He can do it wherever he likes. But anyone in a position to be 
insured does wrong not to
be. Suppose a tile falls on his head? If he’s not insured, he earns nothing 
while in bed, but if he is, he’s in
clover.”

To get out of it Alfonso now gave a frank account of his own finances. Signora 
Lanucci protested, and
the old man calmly put up objections while still denying that a refusal needed 
any explanation.

Every  evening  the  Lanuccis  went  out  after  supper  to  take  some  air.  
This  was  not  the  sole  aim  of  the
outing.  Signora  Lanucci  had  introduced  the  custom  to  compensate  Lucia  
for  the  hour’s  parade  on  the
Corso  with  other  young  dressmakers,  which  she  had  made  her  give  up.  
Gustavo  accompanied  them  but
did not come home with them. Sometimes Alfonso went, too, bored but making such 
a good pretence of
being amused that in the end he believed it himself.

Signora Lanucci got up from table, put on a threadbare but heavy cloak, and 
stood waiting for Lucia to
finish her far more complicated toilet. The old man, in an overcoat too small 
for him which his wife had
helped him don, went on talking, still hoping to do some business before the 
day ended. But Alfonso, who
had been on the point of giving way for an instant, now gave his exact salary 
and expenses in a slightly


irritated  tone,  concluding  that  he  could  not  dream  of  spending  more.  
He  expressed  himself  crisply  to
avoid  finding  himself  in  even  worse  financial  straits;  and,  
distrusting  his  own  firmness,  refused  to  hear
any  more  argument.  It  seemed  to  him  that  Signor  and  even  Signora  
Lanucci  then  said  goodbye  more
coldly than usual, although the Signora did not omit wishing him good luck. 
Lucia gave him a bow, wished
him a pleasant evening and held out her flaccid hand with a studied gesture.

Once alone, to let a little more time pass before going to the Mallers, who 
might not have finished yet,
Alfonso read his mother’s letter.

Old  Signora  Nitti  wrote  of  her  hopes  for  Alfonso,  and  how  she  had  
written  to  Signorina  Francesca
Barrini, the Mallers’ housekeeper, to recommend him. The whole letter was 
scattered with greetings from
friends  in  the  village,  patiently  set  down  by  the  old  lady  with  
Christian  name,  surname  and  message:
“sends   lots   of   greetings”.  Finally  there  were  two  lines  of  kisses  
and  the  signature—“your   mother,
Carolina”.

Beneath this, under P S , was the phrase: “I’ve  not  been  very  well  for  
the  last  two  days,  but  am  better
today.”


IV

LFONSO  CONSIDERED  HIMSELF  to  have  poise.  In  his  soliloquies  he  
certainly  did.  Having  never  had  a
chance  of  showing  this  quality  to  people  whom  he  considered  
worthwhile,  now,  on  his  way  to  the
Mallers, he felt as if a dream was about to come true. He had thought a lot 
about how to behave in society
and  had  prepared  a  number  of  safe  maxims  to  replace  lack  of  
practice.  Speak  little,  concisely,  and  if
possible well; let others talk, never interrupt; in fact be at ease without 
appearing to make any effort. He
intended to show that a man could be born and bred in a village and, by natural 
good sense, behave like a

poised and civilized townsman.

Signor Maller’s home was in Via dei Forni, a street in the new town, whose 
houses lacked any external
charm. They were grey, with five floors and warehouses at street level. The 
street was badly lit and little
frequented at night after the traffic of carts carrying merchandise ceased.

It had rained  during the  day, and  Alfonso walked  close  against the  walls 
to  avoid mud.  On finding  the
house, he was somewhat surprised by its entrance. This was lit up like broad 
daylight. Wide, divided into
two  parts  separated  by  a  staircase,  it  looked  like  a  miniature  
amphitheatre.  It  was  deserted,  and  as
Alfonso  went  up  the  stairs,  hearing  nothing  but  the  sound  and  echo  
of  his  own  footsteps,  he  imagined
himself the hero of a fairy story.

The  first  person  to  appear  was  a  hale-looking  old  man  with  a  
well-trimmed  white  beard,  who  was
humming  as  he  came  downstairs.  “Who  d’you  want?”  he  asked,  in  a  
tone  which  was  enough  to  show
Alfonso that in spite of his black suit he could be recognized in that house as 
a poor man at first glance.

“Does Signor Maller live here?” he asked timidly.

The old man’s face became grimmer. Every decent person must know where Signor 
Maller lived. Could
this be a beggar?

They were now on the last steps before the first floor. On the landing appeared 
Santo’s head, shaggy as
a thistle.

“It’s one of our employees,” he called. “Come on up, Signor Nitti.”

“Oh, Santo!” exclaimed Alfonso, pleased to meet a face he knew, and he went up 
the stairs faster. The
porter stroked his beard.

“Ah!  So  that’s  who’e  is,  is  it?”  and  the  old  man  went  on  
downstairs  without  any  greeting,  humming
again after a few steps.

Santo,  leaning  negligently  on  the  balustrade,  waited  for  Alfonso  
without  changing  position  and,  when
he  was  near,  remarked,  still  motionless:  “I’ll  take  you  in.”  Then,  
after  a  moment’s  reflection,  he  asked:
“Did Signor Maller invite you?”—a question which made Alfonso think that there 
must be a room set aside
for  employees  invited  by  Signor  Maller.  Suddenly  Santo  began  walking  
swiftly  towards  a  door  on  the
right.

“Excuse me a minute,” he called and, leaving him on the threshold, hurried into 
a passage, opened the
first door he came to and slammed it behind him. Alfonso was left alone in a 
half-dark passage carpeted in
muted colours with two doors on each side and one at the end, all small and 
made of shiny black wood. To
the right he heard an outburst from Santo answered by a woman’s voice and 
laughter; he could make out
no words, only the sound which rang as if in an empty space.

Then  Santo  came  out  roaring  with  laughter;  his  mouth  was  full.  
Through  the  half-shut  door  Alfonso
glimpsed a kitchen with gleaming copper pots, a cooking-stove and next to it a 
blonde fat woman lit by a
reddish  glow  from  the  stove;  she  was  threatening  Santo  with  a  spoon. 
 Santo  went  on  laughing  into  his
moustaches for a time, as he moved towards the door at the end of the passage.

They reached a square room with minute pieces of furniture made for creatures 
who had surely never
existed.  Small  and  soft  as  a  nest,  it  was  covered  with  blue  stuff  
which  Alfonso  thought  satin,  and  had
carpets so thick and soft that he felt he wanted to lie down on them.

“This is Signorina Annetta’s little reception room,” said Santo, “but it’s not 
entered from this end. This
is the servants’ entrance. I brought you this way to show you a few rooms at 
once; it’s the best part of the
house.”

He looked at him with a patronizing smile, expecting thanks.

Various  Chinese  objects  were  laid  out  on  a  little  table.  Signorina  
Annetta’s  taste  was  oriental,  it
seemed.  By  the  light  of  Santo’s  candle  Alfonso  saw  a  curtain  with  
two  small  Chinese  men  painted  on  a
blue background; one was sitting on a rope which was attached to two poles but 
slack and dangling as if
the Chinaman had no weight, and the other was in the act of climbing an 
invisible cliff.

“The  Signorina  sleeps  here,”  said  Santo  when  he  reached  the  next  
room,  holding  his  candle  high  to
spread the light.

Alfonso asked in some disquiet: “Is one allowed to come straight in here like 
this?”
“No!” Santo replied grandly. “No one’s allowed but me.”

His face was agleam with pride at all this finery. He made Alfonso admire the 
velvet curtains, and even
moved  towards  the  bed  and  was  about  to  open  the  dainty  pink  
hangings  around  the  four-poster,  when
Alfonso stopped him.

“Oh!” exclaimed Santo, with a gesture intended to show contempt for his 
employers’ wishes but belying
his actions, added “Giovanna told me they’re all still in the living-room.”

Still,  slightly  shaken  by  Alfonso’s  alarm,  he  moved  towards  the  door. 
 Alfonso,  despite  his  agitation,
found the bed touching and kept his eye on it until he reached the door. Next 
to it was a prie-dieu in dark


wood.

In  the  next  room  he  was  surprised  to  find  a  library.  Big  shelves  
full  of  books  covered  the  walls.  The
furniture was simple: in the middle a big table covered with green cloth and 
around the room comfortable
chairs and two sofas.

Suddenly in came Signor Maller.

They had not heard his steps. He asked Santo brusquely what he was doing in 
that room.
“I wanted to show Signor Nitti the library,” stuttered Santo.

He had lost his easy, masterful bearing and stood rigidly at attention, holding 
his candle very low. Then
he added, obviously lying: “We came in that way,” and pointed to a door in the 
middle.

Alfonso moved forward.

“I was on my way to disturb you …” and he interrupted himself, thinking he had 
already expressed all
he wanted to say.

“Signor Nitti!” Signor Maller held out a hand with a polite gentlemanly 
gesture. “Welcome!” He spoke
affably but with no great vivacity. “I’m sorry not to be able to remain with 
you as I would have wished; I
have  to  see  about  a  matter  here  and  then  leave.  You’ll  find  my  
daughter  and  the  Signorina,  whom  you
already  know,  there  in  the  living-room;  goodbye  for  the  moment,”  and, 
 half-turned  towards  the  table
already, he shook Alfonso’s hand.

Santo, rigid at the middle door, asked: “Shall I leave my candle here?”
“No, light the gas!”

Signor Maller lay down on the nearest ottoman and took up a newspaper.

Alfonso  found  himself  in  the  passage  by  which  he  had  entered.  Helped 
 by  Santo,  he  took  off  his
overcoat.  While  showing  him  into  the  living-room,  Santo  found  time  to 
 exclaim:  “What  a  pity  we  met
Signor Maller; his bedroom’s worth seeing. Another time, perhaps,” and he gave 
a protective wink.

The living-room was lit by a gas-bracket with three flames. There was no one in 
it. Santo entered with
cautious  step,  glanced  round  with  a  look  of  comical  surprise,  ran  to 
 a  table,  raised  a  corner  of  its
covering, looked beneath: “No one here!”

Then, seeing Alfonso bored by this and not smiling at his jokes, he moved away.

“The  ladies  must  have  gone  up  to  the  second  floor.  I’ll  go  and  
tell  them.  Make  yourself  at  home,
meanwhile.”

Knowing  the  worth  of  Santo’s  invitation,  Alfonso  remained  standing.  He 
 was  overawed  by  the  wealth
surrounding him and had forgotten all about behaving like someone with poise. 
He longed to be outside
and  did  not  feel  at  all  happy,  sensing  he  must  have  the  modest  
bearing  of  an  underling  in  this  house.  A
more  trained  eye  would  have  noticed  something  excessive  in  the  decor, 
 but  it  was  the  first  time  that
Alfonso had seen such riches, and he was dazzled.

The living-room bore more traces of use than Annetta’s own rooms. A little 
piano was open with some
music laid on it; sheets of music also lay on a chair near the instrument. The 
furniture was varied, some
chairs wicker, some stuffed. He even sniffed a faint smell of food.

A  large  number  of  photographs  were  arranged  like  open  fans  on  the  
walls  above  the  piano.  To  leave
room for the tall furniture the four or five pictures were hung too high.

Alfonso knew nothing at all about painting, but he had read a volume or two of 
art criticism and at least
had an idea what the  modern  school  meant  in  theory.  He  was  struck  by  
a  painting  representing  nothing
but  a  long  road  moving  across  a  rocky  landscape.  There  were  no  
figures:  just  rocks  and  rocks.  The
colours were cold, and the road seemed to lose itself in the horizon. Its lack 
of life was disconcerting.

Lost  in  contemplation,  more  surprised  than  admiring,  he  did  not  hear  
the  door  open;  then  out  of
embarrassment he hesitated a little before turning when he realized that 
someone had entered the room.

“Signor Nitti!” said a gentle voice.

Red as if he had been standing on his head, Alfonso turned. It was the 
Signorina, as she was called, his
mother’s friend, not Signorina Maller, who must be younger, but Signorina 
Francesca, whom he guessed
to  be  about  thirty,  although  he  could  not  tell  why  he  thought  her  
as  much  as  that.  She  had  a  pale
complexion, not healthy but anyway young, and clear blue  eyes;  pale  golden 
hair gave  sweetness to her
rather  irregular  features.  In  stature  she  was  rather  short,  too  short 
 had  her  figure  not  been  in  perfect
proportion and so dispensed with any wish to modify it.

She held out a plump white hand.

“You’re Signora Carolina’s son, are you not? And so a good friend of mine, eh?”
Alfonso bowed.

“Is everyone well in the village?”

She  asked  about  a  dozen  people  there,  friends  whom  she  had  not  
heard  mentioned  for  years,  calling
one or two by their nicknames, and mentioning some special characteristic of 
each. Then she asked about
places, naming them with regret and citing happy hours spent there. She asked 
about a hill at the far end
of  the  village  and  listened  anxiously  to  his  reply  as  though  afraid  
to  hear  that  it  had  fallen  down  in  the
meantime.

Alfonso  found  Signorina  Francesca  charming.  No  one  had  revived  
memories  of  his  home  in  that  way
before; Signora Lanucci’s distant lifeless memories had revived nothing. He  
lived, dreaming sadly of  his
home, by himself, and transforming it by his very thoughts. The Signorina’s 
talk corrected his memories
and seemed to give them a fresh impression. She was moved by them too.

As Alfonso soon learnt, that had been the happiest year of her life. She had 
been ill, and the poor family
to which she belonged had made great sacrifices to carry out a doctor’s 
prescription and send her to the
country. There she had enjoyed a year’s complete freedom.


She took his hat from his hand and made him sit down.

“Signorina Annetta will be here at once. Have you been waiting long?”
“Half-an-hour!” said Alfonso frankly.

“Who let you in?” asked the Signorina with a frown.
“Signor Santo.”

He said “Signor” out of respect for the person.

Signorina Annetta came in, and Alfonso rose to his feet in confusion, flustered 
by the long anticipation.
She  was  a  pretty  girl,  although,  as  he  told  Miceni  later,  he  did  
not  find  her  wide  pink  face  attractive.

Tall,  in  a  light  dress  which  showed  her  pronounced  curves  to  
advantage,  she  was  not  a  type  to  please  a
sentimentalist. With all her perfection of form Alfonso found her eyes not 
black enough and her hair not
curly enough. He did not know why but he wished they had been.

Francesca introduced Alfonso. Annetta bowed slightly as she was about to sit 
down. Obviously she had
no  intention  of  saying  a  word  to  him.  She  began  reading  a  newspaper 
 that  she  had  brought  with  her.
Alfonso sensed that she was not reading and that her eyes were fixed on the 
same point on the page. He
flattered himself that she was as embarrassed as he was and wanted to avoid 
showing it by this pretence
of reading. But her face was calm and smiling.

Francesca, less relaxed, tried to start up the interrupted conversation again:
“And does your family still live in that house so far out of the village?”

Alfonso  had  scarcely  time  to  say  “yes”,  when  Annetta,  with  a  little  
gurgle  of  pleasure,  which  she  had
been holding back with difficulty till then, said to Francesca: “I was with 
Papa. We’re leaving the day after
tomorrow; he’s promised.”

Francesca seemed pleasantly surprised. Annetta’s voice amazed Alfonso; he had 
expected one less soft
in so strong a frame.

The two women were talking in low voices. Alfonso guessed that Annetta must 
have used some guile to
get some consent out of Signor Maller. Being quite in the dark about it all, he 
felt rather embarrassed. He
looked at a picture to his right; a portrait of an old man with gross features, 
tiny eyes and a bald head.

Francesca seemed to sense that he was ill-at-ease and tried to make up for the 
discourtesy of Annetta,
who  had  been  the  first  to  whisper.  She  told  him  how  they  had  
planned  a  trip  to  Paris,  and  now,  after
refusing for a long time, Signor Maller had finally agreed to go with them and 
leave his office for eight to
ten days at the height of the business season. She turned back to Annetta.

“Did he definitely say I was to go with you?”

She must have been longing for that journey too.

“Of course,” replied Annetta, with a smile which Alfonso had to admit looked 
attractive.

For  a  space  of  time  which  seemed  at  least  an  hour  he  had  to  
listen  passively  to  the  two  women’s
chatter, at times pretending to pay attention and at others turning modest eyes 
elsewhere when Annetta
lowered  her  voice  and  neared  her  mouth  towards  Francesca’s  ear.  When  
Santo  entered  and  announced
Avvocato Macario, he felt relieved.

“Let him in, let him in!” cried Annetta joyously, “he’ll give us a laugh.”

Avvocato Macario was a good-looking man of about forty, dressed with great 
care, tall and strong, with
a brown face full of life, and he greeted Annetta in imitation of Serravilla, 
“Even lovelier than usual today

…  ah!”  He  shook  hands  with  Francesca,  who  at  once  introduced  Alfonso 
 and,  instead  of  giving  the
lawyer’s name, said: “The finest moustaches in town!”

“If you knew what a bother it is to keep them like this; I must say that before 
the Signorina says it!”

Alfonso’s   mouth   tried   to   smile;   he   felt   worse   than   before.   
Macario’s   ease   did   not   relax   his
embarrassment or make him feel any better.

Annetta had put down the newspaper. She leaned both her elbows lazily on the 
table.
“There’s some news, my dear cousin! It’ll surprise you!”

She had an air of deriding him.
Macario pretended to look put out.

“I  know  it  already.  In  fact  I’d  never  have  believed  it.  Uncle  
leaving  town  at  the  height  of  the  business
season! Are these walls so solid that they don’t fall down from surprise? I met 
him on the stairs, and he
told me the news, though with quite a different expression to yours now.”

He gesticulated as he spoke; at intervals he put his hands up close to his 
ears, as though hinting with
an outstretched finger at things of which Alfonso knew nothing.

“I can understand your not being pleased about it,” said Annetta. “When one 
wants it here though,” and
she touched her forehead with her forefinger, “that’s enough.”

Macario asserted that Paris was even more boring in the winter than in the 
summer. He seemed to be
taking revenge for some little defeat; obviously he had tried to prevent this 
journey.

“In  winter  the  Parisians  always  have  their  heads  abuzz  with  something 
 that  makes  them  unbearable.
Each  year  everyone  in  Paris,  every  single  person,  latches  on  to  one  
subject.  One  day  it’s  the  fall  of  the
Ministry, another a Deputy’s speech, a third a murder. Always a bore!” he 
added.

Annetta recognized a novelist’s Paris in this description and exclaimed “Always 
charming!”
On a former journey she had searched in vain for that side of Paris.

“Each to his taste. If one visits a friend, he’ll talk about nothing but a 
pistol-shot fired at Gambetta; one
arranges  some  business-deal,  and  the  client  is  worrying  about  the  
pistol-shot  and  Gambetta;  even  the
shoemaker talks of nothing but Gambetta. Maybe that’s all the better.”

At this joke Alfonso gave a loud laugh because he could find no words to put 
into the conversation and
thought it a duty to show he was taking part.


“The Paris theatre’s all right in winter; a good première is worth the 
journey.”

Now  Macario  had  set  aside  any  attempt  to  diminish  Annetta’s  triumph  
and  spoke  seriously,  turning  to
Alfonso, perhaps in thanks for the laughter.

“We’ll go to the première of Odette,” cried Francesca delightedly.
They would telegraph next day for seats.

Macario asked Alfonso whether he was employed by his uncle and for how long. On 
receiving a reply,
he   explained   how   on   the   stairs   his   uncle   had   told   him   he  
 would   find   someone   who   dealt   with
correspondence in any number of languages. Alfonso replied in monosyllables 
and, when told of Maller’s
praise, bowed in surprise, attributing it to a misunderstanding. Yet it must 
have been of him Maller spoke.
Macario knew Alfonso’s home village and asked if he suffered from homesickness.

“A  little,”  replied  Alfonso.  He  tried  to  complete  the  phrase  with  
the  expression  on  his  face,  and
succeeded.

“You’ll  get  over  it,  you’ll  see!”  said  Macario.  “One  becomes  used  to 
 everything  very  easily,  I  think;  to
living in town after the country.”

Annetta did not find this conversation amusing and interrupted it without 
further ado. At the sound of
her  voice  Alfonso  raised  his  head,  thinking  that  she  wanted  to  ask  
him  a  question  too,  but  was  at  once
disappointed and so tried to hide the reason for gesture with the assumption of 
an air of close attention.

“D’you know, I’ve learnt some songs which are popular in Paris so as to act the 
Gavroche in the streets
with Federico?”

Federico was Annetta’s brother. Miceni, who knew him, had described him to 
Alfonso as a very haughty
man. He was in the consular service and was vice-consul at a French port.

“Could we hear one of these songs?” asked Macario.

“Why  not?”  and  she  got  up.  “Would  you  care  to  accompany  me?”  she  
said  to  Francesca.  “Come  on!
Macario’s such a bore this evening that this is the best way of passing the 
time, I think.”

“That’s for us to judge, don’t you think?” replied Macario impertinently.

Alfonso forced a smile. The continual effort to appear at ease tired him. If he 
could have found a way, he
would have left at once.

Francesca, sitting at the piano, had taken a bundle of music on her knees and 
was telling Annetta the
titles. Annetta rejected each with a shake of the head, keeping a hand to her 
cheek as a sign of reflection.
Finally she cried with a burst of laughter: “That one! That one!”

After a few introductory notes the Signorina started up a rudimentary but 
lively accompaniment.

Annetta began to sing in a sweet level voice, then to Alfonso’s great surprise 
she began to sway to the
rhythm  and  pretend  to  run.  Francesca  roared  with  laughter;  Macario  
laughed  too,  and  even  the  singer
could not contain herself, to the grave detriment of the song itself which 
broke off again and again. Then
she became serious again, and so did Macario: Alfonso had only laughed in order 
to do as the others did.

As  Annetta  sang,  she  assumed  various  postures,  pretended  to  be  tired, 
 crossed  her  arms  over  her
breast  as  if  to  run  better,  avoided  an  obstacle  which  she  cleverly  
mimed,  asked  pardon  of  a  person  she
had bumped into as she ran.

Alfonso  knew  French,  but  he  had  a  poor  ear,  so  he  found  it  
difficult  to  understand.  Macario,  staring
fixedly at Annetta and speaking in one phrase at a time in order to interrupt 
the song less often said:

“It’s a song sung … by a man … running after a bus,” he interrupted himself and 
murmured admiringly:
“You’re doing it splendidly!”

Now Annetta really was tired; she was still pretending to run but jerking 
around less. She put a hand to
her breast, and her voice broke into gasps.

“I can’t do any more,” she said and stopped.

Francesca,  laughing,  started  the  accompaniment  again.  After  a  few  
moments  of  standing  still  Annetta
began  to  sing  again.  Her  voice  sounded  fresh  and  sweet.  She  was  now 
 singing  less  vivaciously  and
pausing on a note or two, prolonging it with such feeling that Alfonso, who had 
not understood the words,
began to find this song sad.

Those  sweet  notes  showed  him  why  he  felt  so  miserable.  They  made  
him  long  to  hear  a  friendly  word
from  the  superb  creature  with  such  a  fine  voice  and  realize  that  so 
 far  he  had  not  had  one.  She  had
greeted him brusquely, interrupted ruthlessly when he had begun to speak, and 
not addressed a word to
him. Why? She had never seen him before. It must all be contempt for an 
inferior, someone badly dressed;
now he knew how badly dressed he was compared with Macario.

When  Annetta  stopped,  Macario  clapped  with  enthusiasm  and  Alfonso  
joined  the  applause.  He  rather
overdid  it,  and  soon  realized  this,  but  did  not  want  them  to  know  
he  was  offended.  The  pretence  made
him  suffer  greatly  and  he  realized  that  he  had  definitely  lost  all  
the  small  store  of  ease  which  he  had
brought with him. Macario in his enthusiasm held for a long time a hand which 
Annetta left in his.

“The Signorina speaks French very well!” said Alfonso as if asking a question. 
No one bothered to reply,
and he was silent, feeling himself a stupid bore.

Annetta served tea, helped by a maid. She insisted on Macario also taking 
something else, and told the
maid  to  carry  a  cup  over  to  Alfonso,  whose  eyes  were  agleam  with  
anger.  He  began  to  feel  he  should
react;   what   worried   him   most   was   a   fear   that   Macario,   
seeing  him  put  up  so  humbly  with  such
impertinence, would despise him. He would have given his eye tooth to hit on a 
suitably caustic phrase.

“I never take tea,” he said then in courteous tones as if asking to be excused, 
nettled at finding no other
phrase and at being unable to give the words any other intonation.

“Would you care for some brandy?” asked Annetta, without looking at him.

“No,” was all he said, but an involuntary bow made even this monosyllable sound 
courteous.


Macario  now  began  addressing  himself  more  and  more  to  Alfonso,  who  
thought  that  he  might  have
noticed  Annetta’s  odd  behaviour  and  wanted  to  make  up  for  it  by  his 
 own  attentions.  Alfonso  answered
Macario more calmly but still in monosyllables.

“D’you play an instrument?”
“No.”

Macario congratulated him; there was nothing worse than a dilettante strummer.

“Singing,  as  my  cousin  does,  is  all  right.  One  can’t  understand  all  
her  words,  but  she  has  quite  a
pleasant voice. It pleases even me: my enthusiasm a short time ago was 
genuine.”

Annetta thanked him ironically, but it was obvious that she was more offended 
by the reproof than she
wished  to  appear.  This  was  also  realized  by  Alfonso  with  deep  
satisfaction.  Now  she  too  was  searching,
without finding, for an answer to wound with or defend herself by.

Her  tone  had  been  jesting  for  some  time,  but  as  Macario  continued  
to  pay  her  compliments  on  her
beauty  and  grace  but  did  not  withdraw  what  he  had  said,  eventually  
she  showed  her  annoyance  openly.
Looking  serious  and  even  a  little  pale  she  cried:  “Tell  me  
definitely  where  I  went  wrong?  As  criticism,”
she was trying to be pungent, “joking’s not enough.”

Macario began laughing so heartily that Alfonso envied him.

“D’you set so much store by your reputation as a performer? Forgive my comment, 
I withdraw it!”
Alfonso was the first to get up. Francesca also rose to her feet and asked him 
to give her good wishes to

Signora  Carolina.  Annetta  remained  seated,  arguing  with  her  cousin.  
But  the  latter  now  also  decided  to
go and called to Alfonso: “If you wait a moment, I’ll come with you.”

Flattered, Alfonso waited.

Macario, still very gay, said to Annetta as he shook hands: “Another time, dear 
cousin, don’t doubt it, I’ll
give my criticism in detail.”

Joking but haughty, Annetta replied: “I don’t care; if I need correction I’ll 
find a way to correct myself.”
She offered her hand to Alfonso too; their two hands touched, both inert, and 
fell. Seeing her so pale,

Alfonso had a second’s alarm followed quickly by a sense of satisfaction at 
having found a way of showing
indifference.

In the street the two men stopped.

“Are you going that way?” asked Macario, pointing towards the sea.
“No,” replied Alfonso, “towards the Corso, actually.”

“Do please give me the pleasure of your company for a little of the way.”

He buttoned his fur coat, while Alfonso thrust his hands into the pockets of 
his overcoat with a shiver.
Without waiting for a reply, Macario moved slowly towards the seashore.

“Is this the first time you have seen my cousin?” On hearing Alfonso’s “yes”, 
he asked “And the last time
too, eh?” with a laugh which in the dark supplemented his habitual expression 
of amusement.

Alfonso thought he showed great courage by replying frankly: “I hope so!”
“It’s not worth being put out by women’s whims; my cousin’s a silly!”

“I didn’t think so!” replied Alfonso with some emotion.

Obviously Macario wanted to diminish the bad impression produced in Alfonso by 
Annetta’s behaviour.
“D’you know why you were treated so coldly? One of my uncle’s clerks recently 
had begun to pay court

to  Annetta  almost  as  soon  as  he  was  introduced.  Apparently  he  even  
boasted  of  a  correspondence
between them. My uncle heard of it and had a good laugh at his daughter for 
some time. That clerk was a
dark  little  man  with  short  curly  hair,  and  no  fool.  Annetta  always  
acts  by  general  maxims,  and  will  have
nothing more to do with her father’s employees.”

They  had  reached  the  shore.  The  sea  was  rough,  and  there  was  the  
sound  of  waves  crashing  on  the
quay. In the darkness of the moonlit night, beyond buildings lined along the 
shore, the sea seemed a vast
black emptiness. Only a revolving ray from the lighthouse was reflected in the 
water and lit its surface.

Macario drew Alfonso off to the right towards the railway station.

“I wish I hadn’t been invited. Anyway, you can be sure I won’t complain to 
anyone.”
He had a suspicion that Macario wanted this promise.

Macario began to laugh.

“Oh,  you  can  tell  everyone  for  all  I  care!  D’you  think  I’m  so  fond 
 of  my  dear  relatives?  Didn’t  you  see
how I enjoyed my little cousin taking offence? Vain little thing!”

Obviously  he  was  no  longer  thinking  of  Annetta’s  bearing  towards  
Alfonso,  but  speaking  on  his  own
account, and with some agitation.

“How could I praise her after hearing her sing that Gavroche song as if it came 
from Tosti? Very soon
I’ll be able to lie about it, as I’ll have forgotten the song and will only 
remember her face looking so pretty
in  excitement.  Don’t  you  feel  that  my  cousin’s  face  isn’t  lively  
enough,  usually?  Why—just  as  Napoleon
was only really lucid on a battlefield, so my cousin is only really beautiful 
when she’s excited! It’s difficult
to excite her though!”

By  the  light  of  a  street  lamp  Alfonso  noticed  he  had  not  made  the  
usual  gesture.  With  pleasant
frankness Alfonso then asked Macario if he was not really very fond of his 
cousin.

“As  for  loving  her  …”  he  stopped  to  show  he  regretted  his  joke,  
and  went  on  very  seriously,  “I  love  a
different  kind  of  girl.  My  cousin  isn’t  a  girl,  she’s  a  woman,  and  
what’s  more  …”  he  gave  a  little  laugh,
“with so many gifts that at times she seems not to have done enough about them. 
She knows mathematics
and philosophy, reads serious books for preference, and I wouldn’t be surprised 
to hear she understands
them all, really understands them! She’s so scrupulously exact she might well 
be capable of telling me the
whole contents. But an artist she’ll never be … Maybe during some instant of 
emotional disturbance …”


Here he gesticulated so extravagantly that he might have been talking about 
some revolution. “She’s her
father’s  daughter  …  not  her  mother’s,  who  was  a  weak-minded  
ignoramus,  pretty  and  nearly  always
attractive  even  when  saying  silly  things.  Annetta  has  an  iron  memory  
and  outstanding  mathematical
qualities,  a  mind  for  the  concrete  and  solid,  like  her  father.  They  
don’t  understand  character,  they  don’t
appreciate music, they can’t distinguish an original picture from a bad copy. 
Now Annetta is interested in
Chinese  works  of  art;  she’s  the  first  to  introduce  them  into  our  
city,  but  she  knows  just  as  much  as  her
authors tell her and understands nothing about them because she has no feeling 
for them. The only good
picture they have in the house was bought by myself, of a road across rocks.”

“I saw it, superb!” exclaimed Alfonso, and to give himself importance he asked: 
“Who is it by?”

“I don’t remember the painter’s name, I remember the picture,” replied Macario. 
“I’m my aunt’s son.”

Alfonso  laughed,  but  Macario  did  not.  Even  when  his  remarks  sounded  
jocular,  they  were  said  with
some  deep  rancour,  and  Alfonso  did  not  feel  at  ease  speaking  like  
that  with  him,  a  stranger.  He  began
wondering whether Macario could be drunk and had not shown it at the Mallers.

Worse came.

“Certainly  no  man  worth  his  salt  would  marry  Annetta.  D’you  know  the 
 tales  of  Franco  Sacchetti?
They’re worth reading, or one unforgettable one, anyway. A friar stays at a 
house where he finds his host
a weak man maltreated by his wife. In his anger the friar makes a vow to punish 
the woman by marrying
her  if  circumstances  allow.  A  plague  comes;  the  husband  dies  and  so  
do  all  the  other  friars  of  the
monastery,  which  is  then  dissolved.  The  friar  carries  out  his  vow,  
marries  the  woman  and,  as  he  had
intended,  beats  her.  One  would  like  to  make  a  vow  like  that  about  
Annetta,  to  destroy  that  rude  and
boring  haughtiness  of  hers.  One  would  get  the  worst  of  it,  though,  
for  when  it  came  to  the  point  one
would find oneself the person beaten.”

Maybe  Macario  had  decided  to  tell  truths  in  a  tone  which  made  them  
seem  said  in  jest,  and  had
unintentionally  abandoned  that  tone.  This  occurred  to  Alfonso  on  
seeing  Macario  now  begin  to  explain
why he was so loquacious.

“Don’t think I’m in the habit of making such confidences to the first person 
who comes along. I find you
sympathetic; believe me or not, but I do.”

Alfonso, confused, muttered his thanks. Macario went on:

“I’m glad you felt such a strong urge to revenge yourself on Annetta, and glad 
too that you didn’t satisfy
it.  Oh!  I’m  observant,  denial’s  useless!  People  aren’t  stupid  because  
they’re  not  ready  with  an  offensive
word. On the contrary!” Then, thinking he had justified himself, he added 
another crude comment, with a
laugh, though: “When I come across women so active and aggressive, so 
disturbing, in fact, I think of an
Englishman telling some overeager woman that he pays to kiss and not to be 
kissed!”

On  the  station  square  he  shook  Alfonso’s  hand,  murmured  a  farewell,  
then  left  him  and  moved  off
towards a cafe. Alfonso felt cold and set off homewards at a run.


V

HAT YEAR  there  was  a  heatwave  in  May:  for  some  weeks,  from  a  
cloudless  sky,  scorching  beams  that
were anything but spring-like.

“It’s not right for us to be sweating in May on such wretched pay,” said 
Ballina.

Work    had    not    yet    slackened    off.    From    Signor    Cellani’s   
 office,    through    Sanneo’s,    into    the
correspondence  room  flowed  huge  piles  of  incoming  letters.  Even  
Giacomo  grumbled  at  carrying  them
about.

In  June  work  began  to  lessen  slightly,  and  Miceni,  who  had  a  
methodical  nature,  explained  to  Alfonso
the laws regulating this decrease.

“In  June  the  richest  bankers,  the  brains  of  the  banking  world,  the  
people  who  initiate  speculations,
withdraw  to  the  country.  Our  daily  work  remains  the  same  because  
they  don’t  influence  that,  but  we
haven’t the sudden rushes of work, the issues and conversions, that torture 
subordinates so. In July work
lessens, not because of any change in the banks, but because the richer 
merchants begin their holidays.
In  August,  our  best  month  of  the  year,  off  go  bank  managers  and  
the  like,  even  shopkeepers.  Only  the
bare essential number of clerks stays on.”

Maller’s did not correspond to the rules. In May and June some clerks and 
department heads took their
holidays; in July, Signor Cellani, the assistant manager; and Signor Maller had 
a few days in August.

First to leave was Sanneo, who took a fortnight’s holiday even though he had a 
right to a month’s. The
clerks said that Signor Sanneo could not bear to be deprived too long of his 
daily sustenance of post and
polemics.

Alfonso happened to be present when Sanneo gave his instructions to Miceni, who 
was to act for him in
his  absence.  Sanneo’s  office  was  next  to  Signor  Cellani’s  and  darker  
because  the  light  was  cut  off  by  a
building opposite. This room also had carpets in winter, but, except for a 
comfortable wide desk of black
wood handed on by the assistant manager, who had taken another, the furniture 
was identical to that in
the other offices: two wooden cupboards with rough yellow paint, a chair with a 
plaited seat, and beside
the only window another desk from which the shelf had been taken.

Sanneo,  seated,  was  handing  over  to  Miceni,  standing  on  his  right,  a 
 big  pile  of  letters  one  by  one,
pointing  out  exactly  what  he  was  to  do  on  a  given  day  or  after  
receiving  such-and-such  a  letter.  Some
letters  he  put  back  even  after  giving  full  instructions  about  them,  
observing  with  a  wry  look  that  there
was no need for an immediate reply, and he would do it in his own time. 
Obviously he did not like handing
over all his work to Miceni.

Miceni returned to his room with his head high, his slight body tense, and a 
stiff step. He sat down and
muttered with a smile of contempt: “As many explanations as if I’d joined the 
bank yesterday!” Then some
details  of  his  interview  with  Sanneo  occurred  to  him  and  he  laughed: 
 “What’ll  you  bet  that  at  the  last
moment he regrets going and stays?”

Alfonso longed to get away and could not imagine others wanting to stay.

Soon  after,  Sanneo  came  in  to  say  he  was  deferring  his  departure  
till  the  next  day.  Miceni  looked  at
Alfonso,  and,  when  Sanneo  went  out,  exclaimed  angrily,  “Was  it  worth  
keeping  me  there  an  hour  and
giving me all those instructions I didn’t need?”

“They’ll  be  all  right  for  tomorrow,”  replied  Alfonso,  who  could  not  
understand  anyone  getting  angry
about business.

“He’ll no more leave tomorrow than he has today.”

But Sanneo did leave. That evening he went round the offices saying goodbye to 
the clerks. He gave a
hand  to  Alfonso,  who  stuttered  in  wishing  him  a  pleasant  holiday  and 
 was  thanked  with  a  really  kindly
smile. In spite of what had been said, Alfonso thought he could see, in those 
restless eyes, a gleam of joy
at   a fortnight’s freedom.

Miceni  occupied  Sanneo’s  room  so  as  to  be  on  hand  for  the  
directors.  He  received  his  orders  straight
from Signor Maller and Signor Cellani, and Alfonso envied the easy manner with 
which he treated these
high personages.

For Alfonso this was an interval of rest from all the copying he had to do for 
Sanneo, and afterwards he
missed that fortnight. Miceni did not care whether large numbers of offers were 
sent out; to carry out his
responsibilities all he asked for was the necessary work to be completed 
without errors. He had the sense
to abandon Sanneo’s system at once. The latter had passed on current mail only 
to Miceni and two other
clerks;  all  the  others  merely  copied  out  letters  and  revised  
accounts:  “One  clerk  who  knows  his  job  is
worth a dozen who are fools,” Sanneo used to say. Miceni called on all their 
assistance, and Alfonso was
given the job of writing short letters about contracts for Italy, less and more 
varied work than he had done
till then.

Alone  in  his  room  he  found  time  to  read  books  brought  from  home.  
He  read  no  novels,  still  having  a
boy’s contempt for so-called ‘light’ literature. What he loved were his school 
texts, which reminded him of
the  happiest  time  of  his  life.  One  of  these,  a  treatise  on  rhetoric 
 containing  a  small  anthology  of  classic
writers,  he  read  and  re-read  constantly.  There  was  a  lot  in  it  
about  style  flowing  or  not,  and  about
language  pure  or  impure,  and  Alfonso  absorbed  all  this  theory  and  
dreamt  of  becoming  a  great  writer
who would unite good qualities and be immune from bad ones.

Towards  evening,  a  number  of  correspondence  clerks  would  meet  to  
gossip  in  Alfonso’s  room,  which
was  the  most  separate.  When  Signor  Sanneo  was  there,  they  had  to  be 
 on  the  alert  all  the  time,  as  he


would appear unexpectedly, always in a rush and shouting as he came in, 
whatever the hour, “Don’t waste
time, now, don’t waste time!” Nobody risked a reply, and the group melted away 
like a flock dispersed by
an angry sheep dog.

Miceni, on the other hand, even now came to spend a quiet half-hour some 
evenings in Alfonso’s room.
He would lie silently on an old sofa, tired but pleased by his day, rather 
worried by the importance of his
work.

Ballina  treated  him  with  affected  respect  but  derided  him.  One  day,  
in  the  stress  of  work,  Miceni  had
rebuked  him  for  slowness,  and  the  other  did  not  forgive  this.  When  
Miceni  tried  to  justify  his  outburst,
Ballina laughed in his face.

“You  seem  to  think  the  bank’s  business  is  your  very  own!  I  can  
understand  Signor  Maller  or  Signor
Sanneo bossing us, but not someone who’s just head of the correspondence 
department for a fortnight.”

Even Alfonso noticed that Ballina must be a happy man, for he obviously enjoyed 
his mechanical labour,
though unwilling  to  admit  it.  Ballina  called  himself  Head  of  the  
Information  Office  out  of  vanity,  though
actually  he  was  its  only  member.  He  himself  asked  for  information,  
copied  it  out  and  filed  it  away
alphabetically  inside  a  big  cupboard.  He  had  nothing  pending  as  his  
work  did  not  require  it,  and  had  a
habit         of staying at the office many more hours than he needed to. He 
would clean bone cigarette-holders,
of  which  he  had  many,  mend  locks,  sharpen  razors,  and  shave  in  the  
office  when  he  did  shave.  A  great
smoker, he always had a big pile of tobacco on oiled paper in a drawer. It was 
a mixture of different kinds,
scented by some root which gave his room a strong smell of resin. That room was 
his real home: he had
introduced  his  own  little  comforts,  even  nailed  a  bit  of  leather  
over  his  straw  seat  for  greater  comfort.
One  drawer  of  his  desk  was  set  aside  exclusively  for  food  and  
drink;  bread,  sometimes  butter,  often  a
bottle  of  beer,  always  a  little  flask  of  grog  which  he  offered  to  
any  friends  who  came  to  pay  a  visit.
Obviously he was not very cosy in his other home. The room where he slept was 
so small, he said, that it
was  filled  by  his  bed  and  a  cupboard,  and  a  chair  cluttered  up  the 
 door.  As  it  was  essential,  he  had
thought up an ingenious mechanism.

“I tied the chair to a rope which I attached to the top of the door jamb after 
passing it through a hook
on the wall. When the door opens the chair goes up and leaves my entrance 
clear; when the door’s closed
I find the chair beside me and can sit down without moving a step.”

There  was  perhaps  some  exaggeration  in  this  but  some  truth  as  well.  
One  day  in  front  of  Alfonso  he
handed over the keys of this room of his to one of the bank’s porters, telling 
him to find him a new room
and  to take his few belongings there. His real home, for which he had a 
womanly affection, was his office.

For all his sedate appearance, Ballina had got through a small legacy which had 
come to him, he said,
before  he  understood  the  value  of  money.  For  one  short  year  of  
pleasure  he  had  spent  many  in  poverty
and  was  to  spend  many  more  “probably  till  I  die”  he  would  say—while 
 if  he  now  had  had  even  a  small
sum, he could have done better for himself, being so ingenious. As things were 
he had always worked for
others,  in  a  factory  for  cigarette-holders,  another  for  vinegar,  as  a 
 salesman  in  an  exhibition,  in  a  shop
that sold walking-sticks and so on, always for bad pay. Eventually he had 
landed up at Maller’s where he
had become so fond of the work that he was resigned to a poor salary.

The  clerk  for  French  correspondence,  White,  usually  took  the  lead  in  
conversation.  He  came  from  an
English  family  transplanted  to  France  and  had  been  sent  away  from  
Paris  by  relations  who  feared  he
would get through his whole inheritance in gambling and in a gentlemanly life 
of ease. He had come into
the  bank  as  a  correspondence  clerk  for  French,  first  working  under  
Sanneo,  then  independently  after  a
violent quarrel with him. Maller realized that the two would not get on and 
separated them, not wanting
to  force  the  submission  of  White,  who  was  protected  by  an  old  
banker  friend;  his  work  dealt  almost
entirely with stocks and shares, about which he seemed to know a great deal. 
Apart from that he was a
good employee and a quick, though rather disordered worker. Always smartly 
dressed, he was squat, with
an  uncertain  gait  and  a  bent  back,  and  the  combination  of  dandy’s  
clothes  on  an  old  man’s  figure  gave
him an odd look. But he had very regular features; spectacles improved his 
brown face and made it look
more sedate. In Trieste, which he considered provincial, he had acquired a 
passion for shooting, and his
skin bore traces of many hours spent in the sun. He worked with great speed 
and, when he had nothing to
do, would take a liberty which no other employees dared to and not come to the 
office.

An intelligent blagueur, he was a good talker; he read all the new French 
novels and spoke of them in a
way  that  made  his  observations  sound  original.  He  liked  few  modern  
novels;  he  realized  their  merits  as
far  as  Alfonso  could  judge,  but  did  not  always  take  to  them;  
finding  one  thing  too  much  or  another  too
little,   he   would   end   by   criticizing.   He   shocked   Alfonso’s   
tendency   to   idolatry   by   speaking   with
contemptuous familiarity of the most famous authors: “So and so gave his novel 
a certain title to attract
sales, another wrote filth for the same end, a third with a reputation for 
great virtue, and much read by
young ladies, was a rogue who beat his mother.”

He offered to lend Alfonso books, always forgot to bring them, and then one 
evening took him home to
fetch them. He lived in the centre of town in a spacious first-floor apartment. 
Crossing a small entrance
hall, they entered a big room furnished only with a table and a few chairs; the 
windows were curtainless.
With all that light and space the room looked too bare.

A woman dressed in a pink dressing-gown, fair, with features that were almost 
too regular, was sitting
by the window working at a loom.

“My wife,” said White in French, introducing them: “My friend, Monsieur Nitti.”

The lady made a move to rise, impeded by cloth hanging from the loom. The 
introduced couple looked
at each other, he murmuring a complimentary word, she waiting for him to go 
before settling back at her
work. White had hurried into a nearby room, and Alfonso, bothered at finding 
himself mute with another


mute, gave a bow which was returned slightly, and followed.

The bedroom contained two beds next to each other, a cupboard and some chairs. 
White’s books, about
twenty,  were  lying  in  disorder  on  the  floor,  under  the  only  window,  
also  curtainless.  There  was  not  a
picture on the walls; only the bare minimum; they looked like two rooms 
furnished as temporary shelter,
not   a home.

As he went out with White, the same scene with the woman was repeated. She got 
up just as carefully,
her face calmly indifferent, and again the piece of cloth threatened to fall.

In surprise Alfonso asked White: “How long have you been married?”
White gave a roar of laughter.

“Married? For a long time, but with this hand!” and he raised his left.
A woman holding a child now entered the room.

“My son!” cried White, touching the baby with his stick. “He’s rather like me, 
holds himself in the same
way.”

The baby was leaning his little forearms on the shoulders of the woman, who was 
holding him too high
and so making him bend over.

“We’re more frank than you people. I do everything openly, so my relatives here 
loathe me, but I don’t
care a jot about them.”

He spoke Italian with ease, though obviously translating from French.

One  day,  while  White  was  in  Alfonso’s  room,  Annetta  came  in  with  a  
friend  whom  she  was  showing
round the bank. She greeted White as if she knew him well, introduced him to 
her friend and started up a
lively chatter with him in French. As she made her farewells, she said to 
Alfonso with a polite smile:

“You, too … it would give me great pleasure.”
Alfonso bowed without understanding.

Annetta was in mourning for the death of a distant relative whom she had not 
even known. She looked
better in black than in light colours, as it made her slimmer; her eyes seemed 
even more expressive.

“What did she say to me?” Alfonso asked White.

“She invited me to her home and invited you, too,” replied White carelessly. 
“I’m not going.”
“Nor am I!” affirmed Alfonso resolutely.

On Sanneo’s return he greeted the clerks more coldly than when he left. As soon 
as he re-entered the
bank he at once went back to being their boss, while on leaving he had bid them 
a leisurely goodbye as a
colleague.

Miceni spent the first day in Sanneo’s room handing over work in progress. Then 
things went back to
their usual routine, and Miceni was the only one unable to return to his. He 
kept walking stiffly round the
bank,  idle  because  he  had  so  buried  himself  in  Sanneo’s  work  that  
he  had  neglected  his  own.  He
bemoaned his fortnight of almost sovereign rule, and praised the directors’ 
behaviour to him; but what he
praised more than anything else was Sanneo’s job.

“This  is  quite  different,”  he  would  exclaim  with  contempt,  pointing  
to  his  papers.  “No  variety,  no
initiative!”

He was the only one in the room to complain of leading a penpusher’s life. 
Alfonso, idle because Sanneo
had not yet given him any letters to do, was meanwhile enjoying de Musset’s 
poetry.

Very  soon  it  got  round  that  relations  between  Miceni  and  Sanneo  had  
become  strained,  for  which
everyone blamed Miceni.

Sanneo  had  a  habit  of  jotting  the  initials  NB  for  nota  bene  on  any 
 letter  for  which  he  had  special
instructions, so that the clerk it went to had to go and ask him for them 
before replying. Ballina, who was
always inventing special words and phrases established that to NB  meant to 
visit Sanneo and ask him to
explain what his sign meant.

Now Miceni, either because he considered he did not need all these explanations 
or just from laziness,
often  omitted  to  do  what  Ballina  called  to  NB;  and  even  more  often, 
 after  receiving  instructions  he
modified  them,  preferring  his  own  ideas  to  Sanneo’s.  The  latter  
attributed  all  this  to  oversights  and
merely sent him back the letters with orders to change them; Miceni on his side 
tried to avenge himself
by  writing  out  the  letters  carelessly,  muttering  the  while:  “He’ll  
have  to  re-do  them  altogether  in  the
end!”

This  enmity  might  have  remained  latent  for  a  long  time  had  not  
Miceni  in  a  moment  of  anger  shown
Sanneo his feelings openly.

At the peak working hour in the evening Sanneo came across a letter written by 
Miceni which was quite
different from what he had told him to do; he also remembered that Miceni had 
not responded to his NB
for that particular letter.

He  rushed  over  to  Miceni’s  room,  in  great  agitation,  because  he  
suspected  the  mistake  to  have  been
done on purpose.

“This letter can’t go,” and he shook it in a nervous hand. “I want it written 
differently, didn’t you see my

NB? Show me the original.”

Seeing that Miceni was moving very slowly to gain time, he took up the pile of 
letters, scattered them
over the table and drew out the offending page.

“Don’t you see this NB?” he yelled in a fury.

It was difficult not to see it in fact. In red pencil, the first leg of the N 
ran diagonally across the front;
the second was shorter but only because there had not been enough space on the 
page; the B  went right
off the paper and lacked one of the humps.

“I saw it,” shouted Miceni, annoyed at being rebuked in front of Alfonso and 
White. “I’d already asked


for instructions about other letters, and when this came, it was too much of a 
bother to go round to you
and ask for explanations which I expected to find superfluous as usual.”

His voice was becoming strident; once the rage long smouldering inside him 
burst out, it made him say
everything that came into his head. “Ah! So it’s like that, is it?” yelled 
Sanneo, after a second of surprise
at  this  reaction.  Then  he  tore  up  the  letter.  “D’you  think  I  put  
those  NBs  in  for  fun?  Re-do  this  letter  at
once!”

In a voice trembling with emotion he gave his instructions.

“As  I  can  no  longer  trust  you,”  he  then  added,  yelling  again,  “in  
future  you  will  always  hand  me  the
incoming  letter  together  with  your  reply.  And  remember  if  you  behave  
like  this  again,  I’ll  see  Signor
Maller and ask him to tell you what I think of you.”

Miceni  had  already  begun  writing,  but  at  this  he  shrugged  his  
shoulders  almost  imperceptibly,  with  a
smile of open provocation.

It  was  said  of  Sanneo  that  he  shouted  until  he  met  opposition;  
certainly  he  did  not  like  quarrels  and
avoided them as much as he could. Pretending not to see Miceni’s gesture, he 
left.

Miceni  was  so  red  in  the  face  that  flushed  skin  showed  through  his  
black  moustaches;  his  pen  was
heard scratching over the paper more loudly than ever. On finishing the letter, 
he flung his pen violently
on to the table and cried: “He wants me to do what White did!”

After delivering the letter to Sanneo he explained to Alfonso how he could free 
himself of Sanneo; the
latter  had  enough  on  his  hands  with  correspondence  for  Vienna  and  
Italy;  Sanneo  could  be  left  the
correspondence with Germany.

“Signor Maller knows my worth.”

On the following days Sanneo was obviously acting with studied moderation, for 
he never rejected one
letter by Miceni, who on his side asked him for all instructions that he was 
supposed to, as indicated by
Sanneo’s few NBs.

“So that’s the way he should be treated to make him behave, is it?” Ballina 
cried.

White congratulated Miceni and said he must realize that all he’d done was 
imitate him weakly.
“The next stage won’t be long now,” replied Miceni triumphantly, after 
revealing his intentions.
Ballina protested in the name of justice.

“Now that he treats you decently you’d be wrong to cause any more rows.”

Ballina  had  never  had  the  courage  to  react  against  any  superior  for  
fear  of  losing  his  job;  he  was  the
worst  treated  of  all  the  clerks  in  the  correspondence  department  and  
envied  those  who  said  what  they
thought. White tried to calm Miceni too, not much liking to see his own actions 
copied by others.

But  Miceni  would  not  listen  to  reason.  In  his  impatience  to  carry  
his  rebellion  through,  he  was
incapable of waiting for a propitious occasion, though he realized one could 
not be long in coming, since
Sanneo had periodic days of great irritability when he easily let himself go 
and said things which even his
directors had to criticize. If Sanneo gained an easy victory, it would be 
Miceni’s fault.

One Sunday another clerk in the correspondence department came with an order, 
in writing as usual, to
write out a letter at once to a client firmly demanding payment for the deficit 
on some deal in stocks and
shares.  Although  he  knew  that  the  order  came  from  Sanneo,  Miceni  did 
 not  do  it  and  wanted  to  leave,
declaring that he did not work on Sundays. The clerk repeated this reply to 
Sanneo, who lost his temper.
He rushed off to Miceni, and without asking for any explanation, foaming at the 
mouth, yelled: “Write this
out at once!” and flung the admonitory letter on the table.

“Today’s Sunday,” replied Miceni, livid and trembling; his courage was forced, 
for he was a coward by
nature. “I don’t work on Sundays.”

It was Sanneo who had first made the correspondence department work regularly 
on Sunday mornings,
even before he became head of it, but urgent matters had always been dealt with 
then, work which could
not be delayed.

“Oh! So it’s like that, is it?” asked Sanneo quietly. He had become calm again 
from one moment to the
other, and strode quickly off as if not wanting to leave Miceni time to modify 
his answer.

Shortly afterwards he sent for Alfonso.

“Please, Signor Nitti, would you do this letter?”

He  spoke  with  unusual  gentleness  and  in  a  voice  full  of  emotion.  
For  a  letter  of  a  few  lines  he  kept
Alfonso a full quarter of an hour; first he explained its purpose and then 
dictated it word by word.

“So now it’s up to me!” said Alfonso to Miceni.
Miceni frowned.

“If  he  finds  it  so  easy  to  get  someone  to  work  on  Sundays,  anyone  
who  refuses  is  bound  to  be  in  the
wrong.”

And he left, in order to assert that he could not work as he had something 
urgent on elsewhere. After
having done what he had so long promised himself to do, he was now clearly 
worried.

Sanneo re-read the letter written out by Alfonso, put in a few commas which he 
had not pointed out and
which  Alfonso,  with  his  exactness  as  a  copyist,  had  not  dared  add,  
and  with  a  smile  of  approval  said:
“Excellent! Please be kind enough to put it on Signor Cellani’s desk.”

Never had he been so polite.

At nine on Monday morning Miceni was called in by Signor Maller. Alfonso learnt 
what took place in the
managing director’s office partly from White and partly from Miceni himself.

Miceni  had  entered  with  a  loud  greeting  and  a  bow  which  also  
included  Cellani,  who  was  present.
White, who was about to leave the room, stopped to listen.

“Signor Sanneo is complaining about you,” said Maller very seriously. “Why did 
you refuse to write that


short letter yesterday?”

“I thought it might be done on Monday,” replied Miceni. At the last moment he 
had decided to give his
reply a form of doubt.

“But if Signor Sanneo ordered it to be done on the Sunday”—here Maller raised 
his voice—“it must be
done on Sunday.”

The partial repetition of Miceni’s phrase made the reply sound harsher.

“Anyway,”  objected  Miceni  in  the  tone  of  one  falling  back  on  the  
other’s  goodness  of  heart,  “it  was
wrong of Signor Sanneo to make me work on a feast-day.”

“I  myself  had  given  orders  for  that  letter  to  be  written  and  sent  
yesterday,”  replied  Signor  Maller
severely.

Miceni made inarticulate sounds; there was nothing more to say.
White took pity on him and left the room.

The rest of the scene was reported by Miceni, who left Maller’s room as gaily 
as if he were quite sure
things would work out in his favour.

He tried to arouse admiration. He said that when the verdict went against him 
anyone else would have
taken  the  thing  as  lost,  while  he  had  been  able  to  change  his  
ground.  He  had  brought  up  old  incidents
already known to his employers for which Sanneo had been rebuked; then he had 
talked contemptuously

—thinking  more  disrespect  for  Sanneo  could  do  him  no  more  harm—of  
those  NBs  which  merely  made  a
confusion of the letters and upset the clerks.

“Signor Sanneo’s behaviour to employees isn’t right, and I just won’t accept 
it.”
He had re-acquired all his self-confidence.

Then  he  was  called  back  to  Signor  Maller’s  room,  and  came  out  
looking  utterly  different.  Alfonso
understood and asked nothing. Miceni gave a little laugh which was intended to 
be sarcastic; then with a
decisive movement he put his hat and working jacket on his desk and said: “I 
didn’t expect this at all.”

White, who entered at that moment, looked at Miceni with cool curiosity.

The  sight  of  someone  more  fortunate  than  himself  made  Miceni  lose  
the  little  self-control  that  he  still
had.  There  was  nothing  to  laugh  about,  he  said,  although  White  had  
not  laughed;  if  he  had  enjoyed  the
protection  that  White  did,  things  would  have  taken  quite  a  different  
turn.  White  did  not  defend  himself,
and  replied  with  a  very  cold  smile  that  he  knew  he  was  protected  
and  was  sorry  others  were  not.  This
made Miceni more furious than ever. He seemed to be trying to revenge himself 
for the attack which had
left him so indifferent.

“Try and embrace too much and you’ll have nothing left to squeeze,” said White.
Then Miceni, from fury, broke down.

“Did I want too much? Is justice too much? To be treated decently? Is that too 
much?”

He did not actually cry, but his voice was tearful. White grew milder, but 
could not avoid loosing a last
arrow.

“You said you wanted to be independent.”

This Miceni resolutely denied; he wanted, he explained, to be independent only 
if Sanneo did not learn
to behave better. He was just realizing the difficulties of the role he had 
taken on and feeling ashamed of
such a defeat.

Later White explained to Alfonso how serious Miceni’s position now was. Miceni 
was being relegated to
the  cashier’s  department.  This  was  an  inferior  position  because  no  
practice  as  a  correspondence  clerk
was any help to his being a good cashier.

“And think of the boredom for someone used to more variety in work! He’ll have 
nothing to do all day
long but sums, sums, and sums.”

Ballina  entered  and  congratulated  Alfonso  ironically;  he  had  come  from 
 Sanneo’s  room  where  he  had
heard  that  Alfonso  was  appointed  as  Miceni’s  successor.  Alfonso  looked 
 at  him  incredulously,  terrified
already; the thought of Miceni’s work alarmed him as being too difficult and 
too much, it would take away
the little time he still had for reading. White tried to calm him; what he did 
not know he would be taught,
and  if  he  did  not  manage  to  do  all  the  work,  it  did  not  mean  the 
 end  of  the  world.  Certainly  this  was  a
step-up in his career, and if he had any sense he should be grateful for it.

“It’s  only  lately  that  Miceni  has  been  giving  himself  this  air  of  
importance,”  Ballina  said  to  him.  “He
didn’t before, when Signor Sanneo had to explain every single thing from A to 
Z.”

He  also  mentioned  having  seen  Miceni  with  eyes  starting  out  of  his  
head  at  the  difficulties  of  some
transaction which was quite simple and clear to others.

“Eyes starting out of his head?” asked Alfonso, who found the misfortune that 
had befallen his rival less
enjoyable the more he thought of the suffering it might bring him.

Ballina’s announcement received official confirmation only at three that 
afternoon. Sanneo sent for him
when he had finished his NBs to other clerks. He told him in an off-hand way 
that Signor Miceni had left
the   correspondence   department   and   that   he   had   decided   to   
entrust   him   with   part   of   the   Italian
correspondence connected with banking; just ledger work in fact, he added 
contemptuously. Alfonso had
intended  to  plead  ignorance  but  had  not  the  courage;  he  was  ashamed  
to  show  any  hesitation  about
accepting work that was so easy. In a few minutes Sanneo handed him fifteen 
letters with a few words of
explanation for each. He spoke of transfers, deposits, and suspensions, all 
terms whose meaning was still
vague to Alfonso.

Two  or  three  of  the  letters  he  wrote  out  easily:  these  were  the  
last  Sanneo  had  given  him,  so  that  he
could still remember the instructions; the others he could not manage to answer 
without White’s help.

“Who will he give the rest of Miceni’s work to?” asked White in surprise after 
giving Alfonso, with great


kindness, a thorough lesson on banking terms. “The Stock Exchange letters 
aren’t included here, or the
half-a-dozen controversial letters that come in to him every day. He’s capable 
of doing them all himself.”

In fact when leaving the bank late that evening, Alfonso saw Sanneo’s room 
still alight, and reflected on
the pavement was the shadow of the head of the correspondence department bent 
over his desk.

White accompanied Alfonso to the cashier about a draft. It was a little room 
divided by a light wooden
partition behind which, reading a newspaper at his desk, sat Signor Jassy, an 
old man with a face covered
in spots and a few whitish hairs.

Alfonso noted the debits of the draft on a lined sheet of paper proffered by 
White; then he passed it to
Jassy who put it down beside his newspaper without a word.

Just then a youth appeared at the hatch and presented a bill of exchange. Jassy 
took up a list, looked at
him,  looked  at  the  bill  of  exchange,  then  still  motionless  called  
out  in  a  complaining  tone:  “This  is  the
right one; it’s just listed, but why didn’t you have it countersigned in time 
by Signor Cellani? Now there’s
no one here who can leave the cash desk, and there are people waiting.”

He flung down the piece of paper in front of White. The latter at once replied 
irritably: “I’ve not listed
this draft, it doesn’t concern me; in any case drafts can’t be listed before 
getting a warning letter. Don’t
you agree?”

The  old  man  turned  towards  Alfonso  and  said  to  him  more  gently:  
“Please  show  this  draft  to  Signor
Cellani, will you? D’you know where his room is?”

“Come with me,” said White, and moved off.

Alfonso  followed  him  after  stopping  to  look  at  Jassy.  The  latter  was 
 still  talking  to  the  youth  who  had
come to cash the bill of exchange, while moving with a vacillating step towards 
the counter. His legs were
flabby  as  if  they  were  made  of  cloth,  and  he  was  holding  out  his  
hands  in  front  of  him  as  if  afraid  of
falling.

“Is that the cashier?” Alfonso asked White.

“Yes, a poor old man who’d be better adding up sums or retired.”

Signor Cellani was a man who had achieved his position by hard work, step by 
step; he seemed about
fifty, but his thin figure and dry unlined skin made him look no more than 
thirty.

“My best wishes!” he said very politely to Alfonso, who was coming to him for 
the first time on a matter
of  business.  “Please  be  very  careful  how  you  lay  out  your  letters.  
I  wasn’t  very  pleased  with  Signor
Miceni’s. You are intelligent and understand how important the form of a 
banking letter is.”

He put his initial next to the total sum of the draft.

Meanwhile,  others  had  come  to  the  cash  desk  and  Giuseppe,  Signor  
Cellani’s  messenger,  was  helping
Jassy  as  he  moved  slowly  between  cash  box  and  counter,  indecisive  as 
 ever,  incapable  even  of  getting
help, perhaps from shyness. Alfonso, in his zeal aroused by Cellani’s kind 
words, wanted to hand over the
chit to Jassy himself. The latter was moving towards the counter with bank 
notes in both hands; he gave
Alfonso a sullen look and without stopping, shouted to Giuseppe: “Here, take 
that bit of paper out of his
hand, will you!”

Later Sanneo gave him another two or three letters to do, and as a last job he 
had to send off some bills
of exchange. White helped him with these too because Alfonso was frightened of 
handling pieces of paper
which were so precious.

When his first zeal had died down, and he was copying big sums in a letter, 
Alfonso would calculate how
the tiniest fraction of each sum would be enough for him to live a serene life 
in the country.


VI

Y  NEXT  DAY  Alfonso’s  work  had  already  increased.  Sanneo,  who  knew  
nothing  of  White’s  help,  found
Alfonso’s  letters  quite  satisfactory  and  felt  he  could  give  him  more  
and  more  serious  work.  But  that
day  from  Paris  arrived  the  settlement  which  White  had  to  check  over, 
 and  Alfonso  was  left  to  his  own
devices. By midday there was a first outburst from Sanneo, and by evening 
Sanneo was going around the
bank saying that two days’ work had given Alfonso softening of the brain. He 
called him in and told him to
re-do half the letters he had corrected, and Alfonso was forced to confess that 
he had been helped out by

White on the days before. Sanneo calmed down, but grew more brusque from then 
on.

Then  Alfonso’s  work  became  more  unpleasant.  He  had  been  forbidden  to  
ask  help  from  White,  with
whom  Sanneo  was  not  on  good  terms;  often,  instead  of  giving  
instructions,  Sanneo  would  point  to  the
date on which an identical letter had been written and tell him to find the 
right letter-file and copy it out.
It was not easy to find a file in the Maller bank. With so many clerks using 
the files, he had to go to and
fro  between  the  accounts  department  and  the  cash-desk,  more  than  once 
 too,  since  no  one  helped;
everyone concentrated on their own business, and he had to search through every 
drawer to make sure
that what he sought was not there. At first Alfonso went round every room 
shouting: “Gentlemen, please,
have  you  the  letter-file  for  such-and-such  a  day?”  But  he  soon  
stopped  this  because  he  found  it  was  a
waste  of  breath.  No  one  answered,  and  one  or  two  just  smiled.  By  
running  from  room  to  room  Alfonso
eventually  found  the  file  beside  a  clerk  who  could  easily  have  told  
him  and  saved  him  the  useless  rush.
Having  laid  hands  on  the  file,  there  was  still  the  labour  of  
finding  the  letter  he  needed.  If  Sanneo  had
even mentioned who the writer was, it would have been a great help, for he 
would not have had to read it
all  through.  Sanneo’s  big  handwriting  filled  a  whole  sheet  of  copying 
 paper;  Miceni’s  was  reproduced
whole and clear as the original; White’s big wide pen-strokes developed 
blotches in the file-copy.

Alfonso would go and greet Miceni in the accounts department and sometimes stop 
to exchange a few
words  with  him.  He  forced  himself  to  do  this  against  his  will  
because  he  felt  Miceni  resented  him.
Miceni’s new desk had already taken on the look of his old one; ink-pot, pen, 
pencil, big ledger set parallel
to  the  edge  of  the  desk.  He  would  do  his  calculations  on  tiny  bits 
 of  paper  which  he  filled  with
microscopic figures.

Alfonso found he got no enjoyment out of his advancement. It was a real 
advancement, for even though
everyone went out of their way to remind him that he was very far from having 
Miceni’s position, he had
stopped copying letters and offers: servile labour with a pen instead of a 
broom. But when in the evening
Sanneo handed back half his letters with annotations, he felt desperate and 
longed to take the first train
home and leave those letters to be re-done by Signor Maller himself. It was 
true, though, that if a moment
later  Sanneo  gave  a  nod  of  approval  when  signing  a  letter,  Alfonso,  
however  tired  he  was,  took  up  his
work again with renewed zest.

Tired?  Nauseated,  more.  From  day  to  day  his  work  increased  slowly,  
but  changed  little  or  nothing  in
kind.  He  only  had  to  think  up  one  or  two  paragraphs  for  himself  in 
 a  day;  but  he  also  had  to  copy  out
endless  figures,  repeat  the  same  phrase  innumerable  times.  Towards  
evening  his  hand,  the  only  part  of
his  body  really  tired,  would  stop,  and  his  attention  would  stray  for 
 lack  of  stimulus;  sometimes  he  was
forced to fling down his pen and abandon work from nausea, like someone who had 
eaten too much of one
dish. He never quite mastered this work, and worry was now added to his 
malaise.

White  had  told  him  that  all  contractual  letters  could  be  left  for  a 
 few  days  or  even  weeks  without  a
reply,  and  this  had  greatly  eased  his  work  in  the  first  days;  very  
soon,  though,  as  pending  letters
increased,  his  work  became  more  complicated  because  incoming  letters  
joined  others  from  the  same
client  awaiting  replies,  and  Alfonso,  distracted  and  forgetful  of  
names,  did  not  remember  which  were
which.  In  the  evening  the  letters  were  sent  back  by  Sanneo  with  an  
annotation.  “What  about  the  letter
before this one? Signor Nitti NB. The poor culprit would go off to Sanneo and 
listen to a long sermon on
disorder,  which  did  nothing  to  improve  the  situation  because  he  
lacked  not  goodwill  but  capacity;  his
defect was fundamental.

While urged along by zeal for his new job, he felt less bored. He needed to 
concentrate continuously to
get  through  as  many  letters  as  possible  in  the  least  amount  of  
time,  but  the  very  intensity  of  the  work
distracted and tired him more than something less mechanical. But this early 
zeal could only be re-ignited
by  circumstances  independent  of  his  will,  and  his  work  proceeded  so  
slowly  that  a  good  part  of  his  day
was  spent  either  reading  letters  that  had  just  arrived  to  find  out  
which  he  could  put  aside,  and  tidying
papers left on his desk days before.

Sanneo  said  he  was  surprised  that  a  young  man  who  showed  such  a  
wish  to  work  could  not  get  more
done.  He  would  come  into  Alfonso’s  room  unexpectedly,  hoping  to  
surprise  him  reading  a  newspaper  or
out  chattering  with  other  clerks;  but  he  always  found  him  at  his  
place,  pen  in  hand  and  eyes  fixed  on
paper.  He  even  lessened  his  work  out  of  kindness,  but  the  fifteen  
or  twenty  short  letters  which  he  gave
him to do were never all done by evening, and his pending tray always stayed as 
high.

Alfonso came to the conclusion that he felt generally out of sorts because his 
body needed something to
tire  itself  out  on,  with  which  to  exhaust  itself.  This  body  of  his  
now  became  a  plastic  concept  which  he
reshaped to every new sensation. In the evening, after a day spent on sums or 
rushing about the bank or
sitting  with  pen  and  paper  and  thoughts  elsewhere,  he  would  imagine  
matter  flowing  fast  through  his
body  in  pliable  tubes,  impossible  to  regulate  or  resist.  Whenever  he  
could,  he  took  long  walks,  and  his
malaise  vanished;  his  lungs  expanded,  he  could  feel  his  joints  
becoming  more  flexible,  his  body  obeying


more  promptly;  and  he  would  imagine  that  flow  of  material  as  having  
been  absorbed  or  regulated,  and
helping  him  now  instead  of  impeding  him.  If  he  settled  down  to  
study,  he  would  drop  his  book  and  feel
that his chin was tired, and a strange sensation would come over his forehead 
as if the volume inside was
trying  to  expand,  to  enlarge  its  content.  He  felt  the  same  sort  of  
calm  as  if  he  had  tired  himself  out
running;  his  brain  was  lucid  and  his  daydreams  either  conscious  or  
absent.  Very  soon  even  the  time  he
had  given  to  walking  became  taken  up  by  study:  it  took  less  time  
to  find  calm  in  study  than  it  did  in
walking.  A  single  hour  spent  on  some  difficult  work  of  criticism  
would  soothe  him  for  an  entire  day.  He
was  growing  ambitious,  and  study  became  a  means  to  satisfy  this.  
That  blind  obedience  to  Sanneo,  the
scenes  he  had  to  endure  daily,  disgusted  him;  study  was  his  
recreation.  A  well-written  book  gave  him
megalomaniac  dreams,  not  due  to  the  quality  of  his  brain  but  to  
circumstances;  finding  himself  at  one
extreme, he dreamt of another.

Every  second  of  his  time  outside  the  office—or  even  in  the  office  
where  he  kept  a  few  books  in  a
cupboard—he spent reading. Generally he read serious works of criticism and 
philosophy, which he found
less tiring than poetry or art. He also wrote, but very little; his style was 
not formed, and he felt thwarted
by inappropriate words which never quite hit the target. He thought study would 
improve this. He was in
no  hurry,  and  the  little  he  did  was  in  accordance  with  a  timetable  
which  he  had  laid  down  for  his  own
work.  After  being  tired  out  by  work  at  the  bank  and  library,  he  
would  jot  down  a  few  concepts  or  a
romantic dialogue with himself which no one else would ever hear. The odd thing 
about these was that in
them  he  seemed  to  be  suffering  from  some  universal  disease:  never  a  
hint  of  his  real  sufferings,  of  the
nostalgia still torturing him. These writings were in the nature of rudimentary 
jottings which he hoped to
use in some distant future for major works; plays, novels, verse.

He  had  never  yet  read  an  Italian  classic  all  through,  and  had  only  
a  haphazard  knowledge  of  literary
history and criticism. Later he plunged into reading German works of philosophy 
translated into French.

Then  he  discovered  the  city  library,  and  all  those  centuries  of  
culture  at  his  free  disposal  saved  him  a
great  deal  from  his  meagre  budget.  He  tied  himself  down  to  the  
library  at  fixed  hours,  which  gave  his
studies the regularity he needed. Another reason for going there often was that 
his room at the Lanuccis’
was  not  good  for  study.  It  was  small,  half  of  it  occupied  by  the  
bed,  very  dark,  it  was  rarely  touched  by
sun,  and  he  found  thinking  neither  pleasant  nor  easy  at  a  small  
round  table  whose  four  legs  never
touched the floor at the same time.

When he had managed to get through a day of this routine, he would go to the 
bank the next day, still
tired,  and  work  worse  than  usual.  Pending  letters  increased,  and  by  
evening  he  found  himself  facing  a
huge pile of correspondence from every town in Italy; the whole world seemed to 
be conspiring to impose
this labour upon him.

He made very few acquaintances in the library. He would enter the long 
reading-room filled with tables
in  parallel  lines,  take  any  seat  and  sit  there  for  some  time  with  
his  head  in  his  hands,  so  absorbed  in
reading  that  he  did  not  even  see  the  people  sitting  beside  him.  
After  an  hour  at  most  this  concentrated
reading began to repel him, but he still forced himself to go on for a time and 
stopped only when his mind
could no longer grasp the words seen by his eyes; then he handed in his book at 
once and left. After an
hour spent with the German idealists everything in the street seemed to be 
calling out to him.


VII

LFONSO  HAD  COME  to  the  city  with  a  great  contempt  for  its  
inhabitants;  townspeople  he  considered
bound to be physically weak and morally lax, and he despised what he considered 
 to  be  their  sexual
habits,  general  womanizing  and  facile  affairs.  He  could  never  be  like 
 them,  he  thought,  and  felt  and,
actually  was,  very  different.  Sensuality  he  had  known  only  as  an  
exalted  emotion.  To  him  a  woman  was
man’s  gentle  companion  born  to  be  adored  rather  than  embraced,  and  
in  the  solitude  of  the  country
village where his body had grown to maturity he had vowed to keep himself pure 
until he could lay all of
himself  at  the  feet  of  some  goddess.  In  the  city  this  ideal  had  
very  soon  lost  any  influence  on  his  life,

though it still remained a vague objective for which he felt no need to 
struggle.

He held to it as a theory even after realizing that it seemed ridiculous to 
those to whom he explained it.
He had no idea what to replace it with; its abandonment would have created a 
void in his life. But he no
longer spoke of it, and Miceni was quite wrong in boasting of having converted 
him.

At twenty-two his senses had the delicacy and weakness of an adolescent’s. He 
had desires which it was
torture  for  him  to  repress.  The  sight  or  even  the  thought  of  a  
skirt,  harsh  mockery  of  his  dream,  was
enough to provoke these desires; and they were strong enough to drag him 
suddenly from the reading he
had settled into, and make him rush through the streets, prey to an agitation 
which would have seemed
mysterious had he not known its origin. There was only one occupation that 
soothed this state—following
some  attractive  girl  for  long  stretches  of  the  street,  admiring  her,  
timid  and  ashamed.  The  thought  of
going any further only came later. Till then he had waited for his ideal to 
come to him.

One  evening  he  found  himself  hurrying  along  behind  a  woman  who  had  
glanced  at  him  in  passing.
Dressed  in  black,  she  was  holding  her  skirt  very  high  and  showing  a 
 delicate  foot  shod  in  an  elegant
gleaming shoe, a black stocking, a trim ankle on a body agile and not too slim. 
Alfonso caught a glimpse
of         a very white neck, but not of her face.

He followed her resolutely, overtook her, then waited for her like a little 
dog. The lady seemed to laugh
and  glance  at  him,  and  he  felt  encouraged  enough  to  think  of  
approaching  her.  It  was  the  first  time  he
found himself in this predicament. He hesitated, and thus was forced to quicken 
his pace. She crossed the
Corso  and  turned  into  Via  Cavana;  she  would  have  to  pass  by  the  
library.  “At  worst  I  can  go  in  there,”
thought Alfonso, to give himself an escape route.

He went ahead and stopped at the door of the library. She passed by; a headlamp 
lit up the whiteness of
her neck and made the polish on her shoes gleam, but she did not look at him, 
which for some time took
away Alfonso’s desire to follow her. She went slowly up the SS Martiri  slope  
and  below  the  Law  Courts,
while from the pavement Alfonso merely followed her with his eyes. Then when 
she had almost got to the
top of the slope, he moved on up to the Law Courts. He saw her figure outlined 
against the sky, its curves
clear as if seen in close up. Another instant of hesitation and he would lose 
sight of her; there was no time
to reflect; his desire spoke openly and imperiously, urging him to rush so that 
he came up to her before
she  had  reached  level  ground.  He  was  flustered  but  so  tired  that  he 
 very  nearly  abandoned  his  resolve
from  a  short  time  before.  He  approached  her  with  the  same  idea  in  
his  mind  that had  made  him  run  up
from the Law Courts. “Signora …” he said, and raised his hat; but he was 
panting so hard as he came to a
halt that he could not go on. A blue eye looked at him frostily, and finding 
himself unprepared for speech,
since he had been concentrating only on running after her, he moved aside to 
let her pass; he caught his
breath again, as glad now of being prevented from acting as he had been afraid 
before. The desires that
had  seized  him  so  quickly  left  him  as  quickly;  a  stab  of  fear  or  
tension  had  been  enough  to  make  him
forget them.

For  some  time  he  followed  some  woman  every  evening,  only  well-dressed 
 ones,  for  the  object  of  his
dreams  was  certainly  not  in  rags;  and  at  every  pursuit  he  deluded  
himself  that  he  had  found  her.  The
compulsions  always  ended  in  the  same  way.  His  firmest  resolves  were  
overcome  by  shyness,  and  a
discouraging gesture on the woman’s part, or even an indiscreet glance from a 
passer-by, was enough to
make him desist.

But  he  came  to  realize  from  experience  that  what  prevented  him  from  
finding  love  was  not  only  his
shyness but also his doubts and hesitations and even that ideal brought in from 
the country, put away in a
corner but never quite abandoned. This ideal would suddenly appear when Alfonso 
had quite forgotten it
and its splendour would make him despise his miserable reality.

He had an amorous adventure or two, but this was no sooner begun than he 
abruptly abandoned it due
to either an awakening of moral conscience or merely a desire to avoid 
sacrificing his study-hours.

For some years he remembered with regret a girl called Maria, with fair hair of 
purest gold and a slim
figure which seemed not to be affected by the shining weight she bore on her 
head. One evening he had
accosted  her  and,  bold  like  all  timid  people  when  forcing  themselves  
to  be  brave,  at  once  declared  his
love for her. Maria, who was, so she said, a companion to an old lady, must 
have been in a state similar to
his  own,  for  to  his  great  surprise  she  listened  seriously  and  with  
emotion  to  his  wordy  though  sincere
outburst  of  repressed  emotion.  She  was  due  to  leave  a  few  days  
later,  but  as  a  result  of  his  insistent
begging,  she  granted  him  an  appointment  before  that.  Meanwhile,  his  
evening  study-hours  had  become
the most important thing in his day. The appointment was during those hours, 
and at the last moment he
decided not to go. Later he felt bitter regret, but could do nothing about it 
as he never saw her again.

Not that he renounced his skirt-chasing. It made him dream better. Then he grew 
ashamed of the habit
and suffered a lot one day on realizing that Gustavo had guessed what he had 
been up to.


Till  then  he  had  been  a  kind  of  master  to  Gustavo.  Wanting  to  help 
 the  Lanuccis,  he  had  tried  to  lead
him back in the right direction. The young man had listened seriously to 
Alfonso’s teaching but opposed it
with  his  own  firm  and  simple  objections:  work  being  usually  hard  and 
 ill-paid,  he  preferred  to  live  as  a
poor man and be free rather than as a slightly richer one and be a slave.

All of a sudden Alfonso found that he had become the pupil and the other the 
teacher.

“What fun d’you get out of it?” asked Gustavo in surprise, interrupting one of 
his pursuits of a woman.
Boorish though Gustavo was, he spoke serenely of subjects that were deeply 
moving and disturbing to

Alfonso,  who  envied  him.  Though  more  adult  and  more  intelligent,  in  
this  important  aspect  he  was
inferior.  There  was  weakness  in  his  disordered  strength,  while  
Gustavo’s  thin,  anaemic  face  shone  with
health and serenity.

Alfonso did not feel unhappy. He found happiness partly in study itself, partly 
in ambition, a hunger for
glory.  He  felt  himself  superior  to  others,  and  though  he  did  not  
yet  know  how  he  would  gain  this  glory,
fortified his hopes by a love of study which had become a passion. To his hours 
in the library were added
as many more at home, and they were still not enough. Study invaded his office, 
lunch and supper hours,
and was robbing him of many hours’ sleep every day.

During  a  particularly  active  phase  he  suggested  giving  Lucia  lessons  
in  Italian  syntax.  It  would  be
pleasant to learn while teaching.

The suggestion sent the old Lanuccis into a flutter, and the father told 
Gustavo to join in these lessons
too. He even became enthusiastic. He tried to show great diligence and made 
Alfonso dictate definitions
of parts of speech which he intended learning by heart, sure that it was mere 
lack of preparation and not
of   intelligence   that   prevented   him   from   understanding.   Then   he  
 never   appeared   again   and   only
remembered  to  excuse  himself  the  first  two  times,  though  with  good  
grace  and  repeating  how  much  he
had enjoyed that first lesson.

Signora Lanucci formally handed over Lucia to Alfonso. The first lessons were 
given in the living-room,
the  others  in  Alfonso’s  room,  as  the  living-room  at  some  hours  was  
not  quiet  enough.  Alfonso  took  his
duties seriously, and Signora Lanucci’s enthusiasm eventually persuaded him 
that he was also doing Lucia
a real kindness by these lessons.

They  had  started  with  Puoti  but  soon  changed  the  programme,  both  
bored  to  death.  Lucia  had  not
understood a thing, and Alfonso knew it all.

For some time Alfonso had been reading Tommaseo’s synonyms. He decided to make 
Lucia study those
instead of grammar.

“At least one doesn’t have any system to cope with,” he told her “though in 
fact there is one. One would
never realize one had not grasped it because  it’s disconnected,  every page  
and article  standing  on  their
own.  Study  these  and  one  fine  day  you’ll  find  to  your  surprise  that 
 you’ve  built  up  a  whole  building  and
conquered the Italian language …”

What  he  most  loved  in  these  lessons  was  giving  introductory  talks.  
After  that  both  Lucia’s  ignorance
and  the  details  of  teaching  bored  and  wearied  him.  Lucia  managed  to  
seem  capable  and  clever  for  the
first  two  lessons  because  she  understood  the  many  subtle  differences  
between  the  words  ‘abandon’  and
‘leave’. She took the huge volume with her and learnt that paragraph by heart. 
In the third lesson, seeing
that the girl had followed him so easily till then, Alfonso declared that they 
could proceed more rapidly;
about  a  quarter  of  the  work  was  already  known  to  him,  and  he  was  
in  a  hurry  to  get  to  where  he  could
begin  learning  himself.  She  wanted  nothing  better  than  to  go  a  long  
way  quickly.  She  loved  him,  or  at
least  thought  he  loved  her,  which  stirred  her  deeply.  On  his  side  
Alfonso  was  quite  fond  of  Lucia  at  that
time; he had found no one to take Maria’s place, and Lucia acted as a 
substitute. He did not describe his
longings  but  just  taught  her,  and  the  dogmas  and  theories  which  he  
produced  between  synonyms  were
enough  to  relieve  his  bitterness.  Lucia’s  little  face,  not  intelligent 
 but  attentive  in  a  way  that  seemed  to
come more from homage than self-interest, made him forget Sanneo’s restless 
eyes and rough words.

Sometimes  he  was  put  out  by  Lucia’s  ignorance  and  would  become  
violent  when  he  realized  that  his
explanations were not understood or his former ones forgotten. Subtle 
distinctions did penetrate now and
again into that brain of hers, but it was no home for them, and they left it 
again after a very short stay. If
the same idea came up a second time, he had to introduce it formally all over 
again, and then the anger
oozing from the teacher’s every pore destroyed the calm needed by the pupil for 
thought. When he asked
her to repeat his explanations, she would raise her little nose, then, smiling 
but pale, say the opposite of
what  Alfonso  had  said,  or  hastily  produce  some  phrases  that  had  
stuck  in  her  mind  without  worrying
much about their meaning. Alfonso, so as not to lose patience, would silently 
repeat maxims of goodness
and tell himself that he must not offend someone of lesser intelligence.

“Lesser   intelligence   is   something   to   be   pitied,”   he   was   
shouting   a   week   later.   “But   not   lesser
application!”

In fact the girl was no longer studying. With an immense effort her brain 
reached a certain point, then
stopped because it was tired, almost saturated. When the lessons began, her 
mother, being used to school
systems—in order to find her daughter enough time for this new occupation—had 
arranged a timetable by
which    an  hour  of  the  day  was  set  aside  for  preparation.  This  hour 
 the  girl  had  regularly  spent,  not
studying  in  her  room,  but  with  the  rest  of  the  family  at  table  
listening  to  her  father’s  stories.  Then  she
would  sit  restlessly,  nagged  by  her  mother’s  calls  for  more  zeal,  
and  by  her  own  wish  to  make  a  good
impression on Alfonso, and positively tortured by the fear he might shout at 
her if she stayed there! She
did       stay,  from  inertia,  resigned  to  enduring  Alfonso’s  cutting  
observations  and  far  preferring  his  blows,
rather  than  trying  to  struggle  by  herself  with  concepts  which  he  had 
 explained  only  briefly.  She  could
have  learnt  them  by  heart,  but  that  was  not  enough;  if  she  forgot  
one  word,  that  was  bound  to  be  the


essential one, according to Alfonso.

Alfonso was not a good teacher because he failed to appreciate any efforts by 
his pupil. He very rarely
praised  her  and  then  only  when  sorry  for  some  harsh  word  and  hoping 
 to  avoid  her  tears,  but  never
because of some answer that was nearly correct. He had deluded himself about a 
vocation for teaching,
which he enjoyed not from any fondness for his pupil. Lucia’s progress was of 
little or no account to him.
He  was  offended  she  did  not  learn  more,  and  on  irksome  days,  after  
having  had  to  put  up  with  others’
anger himself, he would have an outburst.

It  was  surprising  Lucia  did  not  lose  patience  and  suspend  those  
lessons,  which  caused  her  so  much
agony and were of such little use. She did not want to. In fact at the end of 
every lesson, when Alfonso,
saying  goodbye,  became  milder  and  treated  her  with  his  usual  respect, 
 she  promised  herself  to  study
really hard so as to deserve such treatment during the lesson too. How lovely 
it would have been to spend
that hour too as friends, admiring each other, which she could so easily do on 
her side. After that hour of
forced  effort,  study  seemed  easier  and  more  pleasant  to  her  than  it  
had  before  the  lesson,  which  had
helped to rub off the rust on her brain formed  during  a  day  spent  working  
at  her  sewing.  She  promised
herself to get up earlier next morning to begin studying again; but night 
plunged her back into her usual
lethargy.

No, she did not want the lessons suspended, but her dislike of them showed by 
the fact that she would
snatch  at  any  excuse  to  avoid  one.  On  some  evenings  she  had  to  
visit  a  friend,  and  on  many  others,  for
lack  of  a  better  excuse,  she  felt  unwell.  One  evening,  Gustavo,  
seeing  her  pretending  to  be  gloomy  and
listless  since  Alfonso’s  entry,  and  not  realizing  the  purpose  of  her  
indisposition,  asked:  “Been  taken  ill
very sudden, haven’t you?”

There was no need of this warning to show Alfonso the sort of love for study 
which he had managed to
inculcate in his pupil, but he found it not unpleasant to be feared.

Once Lucia plucked up the courage to refuse a lesson without making any excuse. 
She went to open the
door for Alfonso and just announced, with a loud laugh copied from a friend, 
that she would not be having
her lesson that evening.

“Why not?” asked Alfonso with a frown. He was not laughing but unpleasantly 
surprised.
“Let’s spend the time having a laugh, not studying,” replied Lucia bravely.

“Hadn’t we better stop these lessons altogether, as you don’t seem to like them 
much?”

Lucia  blanched,  terrified  at  once.  Her  mother  came  to  her  rescue  and 
 explained  to  Alfonso  that  Lucia
had  not  found  time  to  do  her  homework  and  so  was  having  no  lesson  
that  evening  lest  they  got  too  far
ahead before she mastered what they had gone over together. Then he too spent a 
much more pleasant
evening than if he had studied with Lucia. He chattered away and was listened 
to devoutly.

At their next lesson he was more brutal than usual and even called her an 
ignoramus. He had given her
half-an-hour to find an answer which she could not give at once, and behaved as 
if she had committed a
crime  by  being  unable  to  think  of  it  in  that  interval;  he  forgot  
that  where  there  is  no  blood  it  cannot  be
made to flow. He declared, for lack of other cutting phrases, that it was time 
to suspend lessons that were
producing  no  results,  and  got  to  his  feet  to  suspend  this  one  at  
once.  The  girl  had  not  dared  declare
frankly  till  then  that  she  could  not  say  what  she  did  not  know.  
She  looked  up  at  the  ceiling  for  a  reply,
made sounds of impatience to diminish Alfonso’s own impatience, and gave a 
smile so forced that it was
pitiable.

At Alfonso’s crude announcement she burst into tears, got up, left, banged the 
door violently and flung
herself into the arms of her mother, who was alone in the living-room. Alfonso, 
alarmed by the effect he
had produced, would willingly have stopped her to apologize.

He  followed  her  and  was  struck  by  a  look  of  intense  fury  flung  
across  the  room  at  him  by  Signora
Lanucci, who was holding the girl tight to her breast. Lucia was sobbing so 
hard that she had been unable
to explain anything so far. On seeing him, the Signora said grimly: “What have 
you done to the poor girl?”

Very embarrassed, Alfonso replied: “I shouted at her because she’d done no 
studying!”
“Of course she’s studied! I saw her myself!”

Lucia’s anger, like all weak people’s, burst out violently because long 
repressed. Between sobs she now
yelled at Alfonso three clearly distinguishable insults: “Fool, idiot, ass!”

In her emotion the fine manners learnt with difficulty during recent years left 
her, and she was reduced
to the words, tone and gestures of Gustavo. Alfonso was offended but speechless 
and uncertain whether
to defend or to save himself from her anger by taking refuge in his room.

Signora Lanucci, pained at this break in the harmony she hoped to see between 
the two young people,
turned on Lucia: “It’s you who’re the idiot and fool! Will you be silent?” and 
she pushed her away.

Lucia went and flopped into a chair but did not seem to have had her say yet: 
“He thinks he’s clever.”
“Will you be quiet?” interrupted Signora Lanucci threateningly.

Lucia went on sobbing for another half-hour.

Signora Lanucci wanted to minimize the incident and laughed about it to 
Alfonso, who felt in no state to
imitate her.

“But  I  do  want  peace  in  my  home,  and  I  realize  that  the  only  way  
to  have  it  is  to  stop  these  lessons.
Such a pity!”

She  could  share  her  regret  without  fear  of  arousing  Alfonso’s  
suspicions,  because  at  the  start  of  the
lessons she had explained how she hoped Lucia would gain from his instruction. 
“Men, particularly those
with  a  real  enthusiasm  for  study,”  Signora  Lanucci  had  said  with  a  
flattering  bow  towards  Alfonso,  “are
better  teachers  than  women,  who  love  petty  things  and  get  lost  in  
useless  detail,  so  harmful  to  an
understanding  of  the  whole.”  But  men,  she  was  just  realizing,  had  
other  defects  that  were  just  as


damaging. In spite of these defects she went on being surprisingly kind to 
Alfonso.

Lucia  less  so.  For  a  week  she  did  not  address  a  word  to  him.  She  
served  him  at  table  as  her  mother
ordered,  but  without  uttering  a  word.  Signora  Lanucci,  in  consolation, 
 would  wink  at  him,  laugh  and
turning to Lucia say ironically:

“Just hand that dish to Signor Alfonso, will you? D’you hate him so much you’ll 
let him die of hunger?”
Lucia obeyed, looking very glum; Alfonso, just as glum, let himself be served 
with a cold word of thanks.

One  evening,  on  suddenly  entering  the  living-room  with  Gustavo,  who  
had  the  keys  of  the  house,  he
found old Lanucci and his wife looking angry and Lucia with eyes red from 
weeping. Evidently the two old
people had been preaching at her. He sat down at table, pretending that he had 
noticed nothing.

He  regretted  his  behaviour  but  did  not  know  how  to  ask  for  pardon.  
The  poor  girl’s  mute  attempts  at
excusing  herself  came  back  to  him  as  he  thought  it  over  in  the  
evening  or  in  the  office,  and  he  had  to
confess  that  his  rage  had  been  both  stupid  and  brutal.  He  concluded  
that  it  was  his  duty  to  meet  Lucia
halfway,  beg  her  pardon,  and  stop  obviously  making  her  wretched.  But  
when  he  saw  that  stupid,
expressionless face again, with its projecting cheek-bones and set sulk, the 
kind words he had ready stuck
in his throat.

Lucia,  without  looking  him  in  the  face,  after  some  hesitation  went  
up  to  him,  held  out  her  hand  and
said:

“Excuse me, Signor Alfonso, I was wrong; let’s make it up!”
Alfonso, touched, shook her hand warmly.

“The fault was mostly mine; it’s you who must excuse me!”

Lucia  gave  him  a  grateful  glance  which  made  her  less  ugly,  and  soon 
 had  the  calm  relaxed  air  of  one
who has forgotten any misunderstandings. She often laughed and quickly went 
back to her affected ways.
He  was  sorry  to  have  been  outdone  in  generosity  and  was  less  at  
ease.  He,  the  person  of  culture,  the
teacher, should have been the first to give way. This regret, slight as it was, 
continued to worry him even
when  lying  in  bed.  There  were  always  insignificant  facts  such  as  
these  disturbing  his  life,  in  which
nothing  important  ever  happened,  and  every  night  he  would  brood  over  
some  ill-considered  remark
uttered by himself, or by someone else, whose real meaning he had only just 
realized, and he would either
regret not having revenged himself with a sharp answer or blame himself for 
having produced an answer

that was unjustifiably brusque.

In  the  living-room  they  were  talking,  and  he  listened  mechanically.  
It  was  Signora  Lanucci  and  her
husband;  he  could  distinguish  nothing  but  the  sound  of  their  voices,  
and  only  when  they  passed  by  his
door  on  their  way  to  their  room  did  he  clearly  hear  Lanucci  exclaim 
 with  a  good-humoured  little  laugh,
probably to end their discussion: “Real lovers’ quarrels, these are!”

He already had suspicions about Signora Lanucci’s aims for him but had 
considered them till then not
so much real aims as hopes which could flatter but not alarm. Those few words 
overheard by chance, the
end  of  a  longer  conversation,  seemed  to  prove  that  not  only  had  
they  hopes  of  him  but  were  plotting
against  him,  against  his  liberty.  Both  mother’s  and  daughter’s  
behaviour  fitted  in  with  this.  The  mother
had handed over to him, who in his simplicity had wanted to teach her daughter, 
not a pupil but a bride.

He remembered some words of advice from her which could have had a double 
meaning. The daughter
had put up with everything rather than see the lessons interrupted as he had 
threatened. Now making up
the quarrel must have revived their hopes.

Should he get indignant? Their attempt deserved it because, had it succeeded, 
his situation would have
become much worse.

The  Lanuccis  were  in  a  nasty  situation  themselves  though,  with  the  
two  men  in  the  family  unable  to
better their state. So safe did he feel from the nets spread by Signora Lanucci 
that he could look at the
situation quite objectively and realize that never again would he ever have a 
chance of doing such a good
deed  as  marrying  Lucia.  What  would  her  future  be?  Probably  she  would 
 remain  an  old  maid,  uselessly
hanging on to all those ‘society manners’, as her mother called them, till the 
end of her life. In his dreams
he was capable of heroic action; but next day his bearing towards her was less 
affectionate. When alone
he saw the situation quite differently from when he was with Lucia; he found 
excuses, forgave her, even
felt remorse at being incapable of acting nobly enough, recalled the love which 
Lucia had shown for him
by her patience in putting up with his brutality and by the violence of her 
misery on realizing she could
not  reach  her  goal.  But  face  to  face  with  Lucia  he  noticed  her  
prominent  cheek-bones.  No,  he  did  not
desire her! He was free and wanted to remain so.

“I’m ill!”

This conclusion was reached after making a series of observations about 
himself. The deep gloom which
turned  everything  grey  and  dull  for  him  had  seemed  till  then  a  
natural  result  of  his  discontent;  his
insomnia  he  thought  must  be  due  to  brain  agitation  brought  on  by  
night  study;  and  an  abnormal
restlessness  he  sometimes  noticed  in  himself  must  be  because  his  
muscles  and  lungs  were  insisting  on
exercise and pure air. At other times a few hours’ freedom was enough to 
restore his vivacity and calm.
But  now  he  was  constantly,  monotonously,  obsessed  by  one  vision  which 
 made  him  incapable  of  taking
part  in  the  present,  hearing  and  examining  anything  said  by  others.  
Sanneo,  after  giving  very  lengthy
instructions, asked him in a changed tone: “Do you understand?” That change of 
tone tore Alfonso away
from      his fantasies. He said, “yes,” just in order to be left in peace and 
fall back into his dreams as soon as
possible.  But  he  had  understood  nothing,  heard  nothing  and  was  even  
incapable  of  worrying.  He  went
slowly off to his place, taking short steps so as to gain time and to interrupt 
his beloved visions as little as
possible.

He still went on spending every evening in the library, though he came out as 
he had entered, with no


new   ideas   because   his   mind   was   shut   to   them.   He   could   
only   re-evoke   the   past,   complete   some
megalomaniac   dream   in   which   he   saw   himself   showing   off   his   
knowledge   before   others.   A   vague
sensation of madness weakened his nerves. He feared and avoided people whom he 
did not know,  and  a
passer-by at night made him start with fright. He felt awful in the dark and 
quivered at the faintest sound.
Crouching  in  bed,  his  head  under  the  covers,  he  would  lie  for  hours 
 unable  to  conquer  sleep.  What  a
difficult conquest it was! How could he think of nothing? Sometimes he went to 
bed really tired and felt
he would only have to close his eyes to fall asleep. But on flinging himself on 
the bed, sleep deserted him,
and when hours later he managed to lie quiet on some part of the bed, he had to 
be content with a sleep
lacking depth in which his brain went on working dumbly and instinctively, and 
none the less tiringly for
that.

“You’re  unwell,  it  seems  to  me,”  said  Cellani,  seeing  him  pale,  with 
 eyes  staring.  “Take  a  couple  of
weeks off if you need ’em.”

Alfonso did not accept at once and had to go and ask Cellani that evening for 
what he had refused that
morning.

Sanneo, rather brusquely, also granted him the required permission. For some 
time now he had put an
assistant with Alfonso, one Carlo Alchieri, an artillery lieutenant on half-pay 
because of a weak chest. As
the small pension granted him was not enough, he had joined Maller’s. He was 
young with an old man’s
face and a full drab beard: outwardly he looked strong enough. He was the only 
one to curse on hearing
of  Alfonso’s  holiday,  because  he  knew  he  would  have  to  bear  all  
that  burden  of  work  alone.  Sanneo  was
not one to take other clerks away from their usual jobs to help out someone 
temporarily overwhelmed by
work. Sanneo would say a clerk who found himself in that position was 
officially a substitute for the one
away.

All Alfonso needed to combat his inertia was to be out in the open air, knowing 
he could stay there some
time  for  the  sake  of  his  health.  He  longed  to  feel  well  again.  
Till  then  he  had  not  felt  any  regret  for  his
weakness, thinking of it as do holy men in India who find an increase of 
intelligence by annihilating the
material. But his state of boredom, of greyness and monotony, was not that of 
an intelligent person.

The sun was just up when Alfonso jumped out of bed with a violent effort of 
will. He did not know where
to go or where chance would take him; there were plenty of hills around the 
town.

First  he  thought  of  following  a  company  of  soldiers  going  out  on  
manoeuvres.  But  the  sound  of  their
heavy measured tread on the cobble-stones irritated him. He went up Via Stadion 
almost at a run to get
away from them, as they were taking the same road. He wanted to reach the 
cliff-side. The effort would
have  been  enough  for  that  first  day.  But  before  he  was  past  the  
last  houses  of  the  city,  low  and  rustic,
some thatched and painted in bright earthy colours, he had already changed his 
mind. Now he wanted a
green hillside lying on his right, not a grim cliff. He crossed a wooden bridge 
over the wide but nearly dry
bed of a stream; a thread of water ran amid white stones. He crossed a wide 
avenue on the other side and
at last felt bare earth beneath his feet, living grass soft beneath his weight. 
Already tired and panting, he
flung himself on the ground. He was in a copse of young trees with slim trunks, 
with tufty tops wavering
in the morning breeze. This sound joined with the murmer of water trickling 
into a pool near a low white
house only a few steps away.

Again he was seized with a desire to run, a yearning to get far away. As he 
climbed, the trees became
thicker  and  stronger.  Here  and  there  bushes  held  him  up,  and  he  
forced  himself  ahead  with  febrile
impatience,  without  the  strong  man’s  calm  step.  He  crossed  another  
road  and  strode  through  another
copse,   still  climbing  aimlessly.  The  blood  was  churning  in  his  head  
and  his  breath  failing,  but  this  only
stopped him for very short stops. Exhaustion only overwhelmed him when he came 
up against a high wall
blocking his way. He had climbed for less than an hour before flinging himself 
on the ground completely
exhausted; it seemed to him a well-deserved rest.

For  a  minute  or  two  he  was  terrified  by  a  violent  beating  in  his  
heart  and  temples.  He  took  off  his
jacket, put it under his head and lay down on dry ground by an oak. Shortly 
after, though his blood was
still agitated, his lungs opened, and he took a deep breath, deeper than he had 
taken for a long time. He
looked at the  little field around and enjoyed seeing it clear and green and 
smiling,  as  if  it  were  his  own
and would one day be his home. A corner of the city was visible: some twenty 
close-packed houses, then
others  scattered  one  by  one  on  the  opposite  hillside.  Beyond  was  a  
patch  of  blue  sea  with  motionless
boats.  The  clear  sky,  cloudless  to  the  horizon,  the  green  of  the  
country,  those  houses  flung  down
haphazardly,  reminded  him  of  an  oleograph  in  which  colours  had  been  
levelled  out  by  the  machine,  the
painter’s idea muted by reproduction, its light and movement gone.

Like a child, smiling, with closed fists, he fell asleep.

He had an absurd dream about Maria, whom he recognized by her bright coloured 
dress. She told him
that she knew that circumstances had prevented him from coming to that 
appointment. She forgave and
loved him.


VIII

LCHIERI, RUSHED AND FLUSTERED, holding a bundle of papers, was hurrying towards 
the cash-desk when
he  saw  Alfonso,  hat  in  hand,  about  to  enter  Sanneo’s  room  to  
announce  his  return  to  the  office.  He
gave a cry of delight, tried to stop Alfonso, who passed by without noticing 
him, then grew calmer and sat
down next to Giacomo, on duty in the passage and intent on deciphering a 
newspaper half aloud. Finding
no  one  else  to  tell,  Alchieri  confided  to  Giacomo  that  this  was  the 
 first  time  for  a  fortnight  he  had  sat

down to rest and not to write.

Sanneo greeted Alfonso cordially, then, turning back to a huge register on 
which he was writing in his
big  script,  asked  if  he  was  well.  Without  waiting  for  a  reply,  in  
phrases  interrupted  by  work  which  at
intervals  called  for  all  his  attention,  he  spoke  of  some  letters  
left  pending  which  needed  answering  as
soon  as  possible.  Then  he  handed  him  a  few,  to  the  accompaniment  of 
 explanations,  which  Alfonso  only
half  understood,  referring  to  things  that  had  happened  during  his  
absence,  a  period  which  seemed  to
Alfonso much more than a fortnight away. Sanneo dismissed him with a piece of 
good news.

“Signor Alchieri will continue to help you—he works quite well … it seems.”

Alchieri  stopped  him  in  the  passage  and  tried  to  hug  him  in  thanks  
for  returning  at  the  exact  date
promised.

“I couldn’t take much more!”

Then he too began to explain various business matters and, there and then in 
the passage, handed over
all the letters he had in his hand, statements of account or advice of drafts. 
He could not wait to be rid of
them.

With those letters in one hand and his hat in the other, Alfonso went to pay 
his respects to Cellani.

He  found  him  opening  the  post.  With  one  snip  of  his  scissors  he  
opened  an  envelope,  took  out  the
contents  which  he  threw  on  one  side,  and  before  putting  down  the  
envelope  gave  it  a  careful  glance
against  the  light.  He  too  went  on  working  while  talking  to  Alfonso;  
but  when  the  latter,  with  his  usual
shyness, murmured his thanks, reminding him that he owed his holiday to him, 
Cellani got up and went to
shake Alfonso’s hand with a friendly smile on his pale face. His long 
sportsman’s body, elegant but weak,
seemed borne along rather than self-propelled, so little energy was there in 
his movements and so exactly
and unhesitatingly did he pass through the narrow space between desk and chair.

“You’re  looking fine,”  he  said  to Alfonso,  glancing almost  enviously  at  
the  latter’s  sun-tanned  face.  He
was in a hurry to return to his own place. Shaking Alfonso’s hand again he said 
laughing: “Now …” and
made a show of writing very fast with the pen in his left hand.

Alfonso found that Alchieri had diminished his pending tray, and, sitting in 
his place, he decided under
the  encouragement  of  Cellani’s  welcome  to  get  it  all  done  and  allow  
no  more  to  accumulate.  Alchieri,
coming from a barracks, had introduced in only a fortnight a system of work far 
preferable to Alfonso’s,
who found it easy, at least at first, to keep to this. His improved serenity, 
reinforced by the open air, made
him capable of greater concentration, effort though it always was.

Even when back at work he continued his open-air cure, as he called it. Every 
morning he walked for an
hour  or  two,  usually  towards  the  plateau  because  he  needed  the  
climb.  Up  he  went  with  his  measured
pace and tramped along the whole of the wide Opicina road, whose enormous 
length took him up to the
plateau  in  a  single,  wide,  gently  sloping  semi-circle  around  the  
town.  Alfonso  would  rest  on  this  road
where a lane branched off towards Longera.

From  there  he  saw  the  vast,  silent  deserted  plateau  with  its  
innumerable  stone  hillocks  of  all  shapes;
pointed, round, squat heaps of stones fallen from above and arranged as 
haphazardly as was Monte Re on
the horizon, with its wide back, gentle slope at one side and almost 
perpendicular drop on the other.

Alfonso never passed that point, partly because he had no time. From there he 
could see the city with
its white houses, and the sea, usually in morning calm as if the few hours of 
light had not yet been enough
to  rouse  it.  The  green  of  the  promontories  on  the  left  of  the  city 
 and  the  colours  of  the  sea  contrasted
strangely with the grey stones of the plateau.

He descended into a city quieter than he ever knew it except when leaving the 
library. Near Longera he
passed without entering an oblong village halfway down the valley, hugging the 
mountain as if for refuge,
its  houses  all  clustered  together,  though  it  could  easily  have  found  
air  and  space  by  encroaching  on
surrounding  fields.  People  were  already  beginning  to  swarm  on  to  the  
village  streets  at  that  hour,  and
from  a  distance  all  the  outer  forms  of  human  activities  and  
destinies  seemed  suggested  by  those  few
figures  moving  about  the  narrow  alleys  of  the  little  place.  A  boy’s  
quick  run,  which  Alfonso  could  follow
from one side of the village to the other; a peasant leaving home with his hat 
on and then, before moving
on,  calmly  examining  the  sky,  maybe  to  see  whether  to  take  an  
umbrella;  in  a  more  remote  lane  a  man
and  woman  were  chattering  away,  maybe  of  love  already  at  that  hour;  
in  a  courtyard  grain  was  being
beaten amid so much movement that from a distance it could be mistaken for 
gaiety. Then Alfonso passed
prosperous San Giovanni with its scattered houses, its little white church, 
empty during the week but so
full on Sundays that not all the faithful could enter, and peasant-women, 
dressed in black wool edged with
wide strips of blue or red silk, crowded the little square and made their 
devotions out in the open.

Alfonso’s  new  way  of  life  was  damaging  to  his  studies,  because  the  
first  result  of  his  frequent  outings
was a need for yet more air and an inability to stay shut up for long. 
Sometimes he would move towards
the  library  on  coming  out  of  the  office  but  could  seldom  stay  there 
 more  than  a  half-hour;  he  would  be
seized by an invincible restlessness which took him out into the open to stand 
riveted to some quay, with


no ideas or dreams in his head, his only preoccupation being to absorb that 
sea-breeze, whose beneficial
effects he thought he could feel at once.

Then  he  would  go  home  and  at  supper  still  intend  to  spend  the  rest 
 of  the  evening  with  a  book,  but
weariness would overcome him, and he would go off into ten hours of calm and 
restful sleep.

Yet it was precisely then that his ambition took definite form. He had found 
his path! He would lay the
foundations  of  modern  Italian  philosophy  by  translating  a  good  German  
work  and  at  the  same  time
writing an original work of his own. The translation remained purely an 
intention, but he did start on the
original work: a title The Moral Idea in the Modern World and a preface in 
which he declared the aim of
his work. This aim was theoretical and without any practical intention, which 
seemed to him quite new for
Italian philosophy. The idea briefly laid out in the table of contents, beyond 
which Alfonso himself knew no
more, was to show that the only basis for a moral idea in the world was the 
community’s advantage. The
idea  was  not  particularly  original,  but  his  development  of  it  could  
become  so  if  treated  exclusively  as  a
search for truth with no preoccupation about possible practical consequences. 
For this he lacked neither
the  courage  nor  the  sincerity;  when  writing  he  had  all  the  courage  
that  he  lacked  in  life,  and  studies
undertaken  purely  for  the  sake  of  learning  would  have  no  effect  on  
his  sincerity.  He  did  not  know  and
cared less what elements were needed for literary success. He wanted to work, 
to work well, and success
would come by itself.

He  did  work  well,  but  very  little.  Too  often  his  thoughts  were  on  
the  completed  work,  while  phrases
actually  written  could  be  counted  on  his  fingers.  Thus  he  imagined  
more  and  more  qualities  in  a  book
which, because so far more or less non-existent, could not be damaged by his 
pen’s resistance. After some
months, seeing that the result of his efforts was three or four short pages of 
preface, which promised to
do   and  to  attempt  much  while  nothing  was  actually  done  or  attempted 
 at  all,  he  felt  very  discouraged.
Those  pages  represented  the  work  of  months,  for  no  other  had  been  
done  in  the  meantime.  He  had  not
been studying much, and those pages were the only progress he had made towards 
his goal; so small that
it was equivalent to a tacit renunciation of all ambition.

With more reason he could persuade himself that this lack of progress was due 
to renunciation, for he
really did find himself happier at the bank and hating less the work that was 
in fundamental antagonism,
so he thought, with the intellectual labours to which he wanted to dedicate 
himself. Alchieri had helped to
make  the  bank  less  odious,  but  so,  he  considered,  had  the  almost  
complete  abandonment  of  his  other
more intelligent activities.

For  some  time  he  tried  to  get  back  to  reading  at  the  civic  
library,  even  at  the  cost  of  leaving  his
philosophical  writing  aside  for  the  moment.  One  evening  Sanneo  scolded 
 him  for  a  mistake.  Although
realizing  that  he  deserved  such  rebukes,  he  was  put  out  by  the  
manner  of  their  delivery,  by  an  over-
brusque  word.  At  other  times,  he  remembered,  he  had  rid  himself  of  
the  bitter  mood  aroused  by  these
incidents  in  a  clerk’s  life  by  applying  himself  more  fervently  to  
the  studies  which  would  eventually  pull
him out of his position of inferiority. That was what took him back to the 
library after a long absence.

He  plunged  into  reading  an  Italian  bibliographical  journal.  He  felt  
that  language  was  not  obeying  him
and that he must go in for reading more Italian. For about an hour he read 
spontaneously and attentively

—due  to  Sanneo’s  brutality—  a  discussion  about  the  authenticity  of  
some  of  Petrarch’s  letters.  When  he
paused he felt satisfied; but the tiring of his brain reminded him of past 
readings; he felt an overwhelming
sense of regret and of how much his life had changed.

On  raising  his  head  he  noticed  that  opposite  him  was  sitting  
Macario,  who  was  gazing  at  him
indecisively.

“Signor  Nitti!”  he  said  almost  questioningly;  he  must  have  had  a  bad 
 memory.  Then  he  held  out  his
hand in a friendly way.

They went out together.

“D’you  often  come  here?”  asked  Macario,  busy  straightening  his  
overcoat,  a  long  grey  garment  with
large bone buttons.

Alfonso replied carelessly that he came every evening and tacitly decided to 
make the lie into the truth
in future.

“I’ve  come  for  the  last  week,  and  it’s  a  pity  this  is  the  first  
time  we’ve  met,”  said  Macario  kindly.  He
asked what he was studying.

“Literature.” confessed Alfonso, hesitating.

He was glad to be able to say this to Macario but hesitated because he knew and 
feared his malice. He
explained that he was in the habit of doing an hour or two’s studying every day 
as a distraction after the
day’s work.

“And what are you reading?” asked Macario, who was looking at him with 
surprise.

He  found  that  Alfonso,  apart  from  his  bronzed  face,  seemed  less  
rustic  than  in  the  months  before.  He
spoke more easily, and, what was more, as Macario was sufficiently intelligent 
to understand, his decrying
of regular work denoted a certain superiority.

Knowing how much some people despised philosophers and philosophy, Alfonso 
abstained from naming
his  favourite  authors  and  only  mentioned  a  critic  or  two.  But  
Macario  must  have  realized  that  he  was
dealing  with  someone  who  could  allow  himself  the  luxury  of  his  own  
opinions  and  was  surprised  to  find
him so cagey. Alfonso was enthusiastic about authors whom he did not mention to 
Macario.

On  his  own  side  Alfonso  very  soon  acquired  some  notion  of  Macario’s  
culture.  He  was  pleased  to  find
himself highly enough esteemed for Macario to make ill-concealed efforts to 
introduce subjects he knew
about  into  the  conversation.  Macario  spoke  of  contemporary  realist  
writers.  Alfonso  had  read  some  of
their  novels  and  a  review  or  two  and  made  up  his  mind  about  them  
with  the  calm  of  the  disinterested


student he then was. He admired some parts, criticized others. Macario was a 
resolute partisan, and his
enthusiasm made Alfonso sift his own opinions. While Macario was looking at him 
with a rather derisive
smile which meant “My flair makes my few studies worth your many”, Alfonso’s 
serious, attentive aspect,
like a scholar at a lesson, hid his enjoyment of his own superiority. He 
avoided a discussion in which he
had  no  hope  of  gaining  a  victory  over  Macario’s  facility  with  words. 
 But  with  such  a  speaker  it  was
impossible  to  look  indifferent,  and  almost  involuntarily  Alfonso  began  
giving  signs  of  assent  which,  to
calm his own conscience, he addressed to Macario’s single phrases and not to 
his concepts. Some of these
phrases  were  so  fine  that  Alfonso  suspected  them  to  be  stolen.  He  
spoke  of  the  creations  of  man  which
were  quite  up  to  the  biblical  ‘creation’  in  results.  The  latter  
differed  somewhat  in  method,  but  both  had
achieved  the  production  of  organisms  which  lived  by  themselves  and  
bore  no  trace  of  having  been
created.

Macario told him he came to the library for some calm reading of Balzac, whom 
the realists called their
‘father’. Balzac was not that at all, or at least Macario did not consider him 
as such. He classified Balzac
as a writer of ordinary rhetoric, typical of the first half of the century.

They  reached  Piazza  della  Legna,  walking  so  slowly  that  they  took  
half-an-hour.  On  the  way  Macario
found time to admire a pretty seamstress and make a young lady blush by staring 
straight into her eyes.
Alfonso, though, had been unable to do anything but listen.

“Where d’you live?” asked Macario, taking his arm.

“In that direction,” and he pointed vaguely towards the old town.
“I’ll walk some of the way with you.”

How could he not be flattered by such kindness, and how could he start to 
defend Balzac from the taint
of rhetoric? In reply to the pleasant offer Alfonso resolutely sacrificed 
Balzac.

“He’s often rhetorical, of course!”

They did not enter the old town but returned to the Corso.

“D’you know you ought to be very much at home now at my uncle’s? It’s quite a 
different place; Annetta
is  dedicating  herself  to  literature.  Would  you  like  us  to  go  and  
call  on  her?  She’s  been  back  from  the
country a week and receives friends almost every evening; she’s even more 
emancipated than she was in
the past.”

“Really!” queried Alfonso, showing surprise.

He tried to find some answer to refuse the invitation.

Macario  behaved  as  if  Alfonso  had  already  accepted,  and,  followed  by  
him,  he  crossed  the  Corso  and
entered Via Ponte Rosso. Alfonso was still undecided.

“You’ll see! She’s at her prettiest! Half her day she spends at her desk. This 
new vocation doesn’t worry
anyone,  by  the  way;  in  a  few  months  she  won’t  even  mention  it.  I  
think  what  stirred  her  up  is  the  fame
being won by other women in Italy. Women! One begins, and the others follow 
like sheep. Men’s example
doesn’t  count  at  all.  They  imitate  this,  they  imitate  that,  and  
never  realize  what  they  are  imitating,
because  their  tiny  brains  know  so  little  about  originality  that  they  
consider  it  equivalent  to  accuracy,
accuracy in imitation. The really original woman is the one who first imitates 
a man.”

Alfonso laughed.

“What about Signorina Annetta?”

“About  Signorina  Annetta  as  a  writer  I  know  nothing.  She’s  so  
cautious  that  until  she’s  imitated
something  very  closely  she’ll  show  no  one  a  thing;  so  one  must  wait 
 before  giving  a  definite  opinion,  as
it’s  a  matter  of  knowing  whom  she’s  chosen  to  imitate.  My  opinion  
of  Annetta  you  already  know.  Highly
developed mathematical qualities …” and he made his usual gesture to accentuate 
the hint. “Anyway, now
we’ll go and pay her our homage.”

They entered Via dei Forni; Alfonso stopped him.

“I’m not coming, I can’t come. I’m expected at home, and then in this state …”

His  face  was  flushed,  and  he  spoke  with  far  more  warmth  than  was  
needed  to  refuse  Macario’s
invitation.

“I can’t make you, of course. It’s a pity though! If someone is waiting for 
you, of course you’re right to
refuse,  but  if  it’s  because  of  your  clothes,  you’re  wrong.  Firstly  
you’re  quite  decent.  Then,  now  that
Annetta is a literary girl, she likes bohemians. So come along, do!”

But Alfonso resisted. He had already realized from what Macario had said that 
Annetta would treat him
pleasantly, but he wanted to be begged to come. He had been unable to obtain 
any other satisfaction from
the offence done to him and intended to obtain at least that.

“You still remember Annetta’s coldness months ago.”

But Alfonso protested and, like a child, asserted that he no longer remembered.

Next evening they both met again in the library. Alfonso went there more 
willingly. He was amused by
Macario’s conversation and flattered by his company.

Macario’s wit always won over Alfonso’s knowledge, and Macario was convinced 
that he was doing the
teaching. He was mistaken. If Alfonso learnt anything from him, it was by 
observing him as an object of
study.

He  had  understood  now  the  quality  of  Macario’s  wit.  He  noticed  
mistakes;  he  realized  when  Macario
puffed up an idea to show it off more easily, and if he did sometimes show 
admiration it was because he
admired the ease with which Macario made denials or assertions where superior 
minds would hesitate.

Macario often fell into contradictions, but never on the same day. He was 
subject to moods. He would
put on borrowed clothes and live in them as if they were his own, and he would 
never take them off. That
was  easy  for  him,  thanks  to  his  superficial  culture,  which  was  
extensive  enough  for  him  to  create  the


image of an easily civilized personality, and not deep enough to give him any 
firm convictions of the sort
that are not renounced even in jest.

That second evening  he  attacked  the  press.  He  said  that those  who  
wrote  for  the  press  always had  to
pretend and could never be sincere. In public the old was called new, the 
blameworthy praised and so on.
All this was rather weak stuff so far, but then he got under way. What use was 
learning? Apart from those
who  dedicated  themselves  to  original  research  on  a  certain  subject,  
others  were  wrong  to  bother  too
much about it. They tired out their brains and drew no advantage, because 
someone who understands one
part of something well has educated his brain just as much as another who has 
studied more parts. Thus
printed  paper  damages  the  brain  more  than  it  advances  it.  That  
‘thus’  did  not  follow  quite  directly,  but
Alfonso gave no sign of noticing this, and Macario was pleased at his own 
reasoning.

“This is good!” exclaimed Macario one evening at the library, putting in front 
of Alfonso a little book he
had just finished reading: Balzac’s Louis Lambert.

Alfonso also read it in two or three days with no less admiration. Apart from a 
love-letter of such deep
and sensual passion that it transcended love, he did not admire the book’s 
artistic merits as much as the
original way a whole philosophic system was explained briefly but completely, 
with every part indicated,
and all handed over by the author to his hero with a grandee’s generosity.

Macario asked Alfonso how he had liked it, and Alfonso was about to give him 
his sincere opinion. But
Macario quickly imposed his own ideas, as if fearing they would be stolen.

“D’you  know  why  it’s  such  a  fine  book?  It’s  the  only  one  of  
Balzac’s  that  is  really  impersonal,  and  it
became that by chance. Louis Lambert is mad, all those around him are mad, and 
this time the author, to
conform,  makes  himself  mad  too.  So  it’s  a  little  world  presented  
intact,  by  itself,  without  the  slightest
influence  from  outside.”  Alfonso  was  amazed  by  this  criticism,  as  
original  as  it  was  false.  It  must  have
been  made  according  to  a  method  which  Alfonso  avoided  mentioning  only 
 because  he  feared  being  also
put into that ‘little world presented intact’.

His company must have pleased Macario, who often sought him out, even some 
evenings going to fetch
him from the office.

Alfonso  soon  guessed  the  reason  for  this  sudden  affection.  He  owed  
it  to  his  docility  and,  he  thought,
also  to  his  size.  He  was  so  small  and  insignificant  that  Macario  
felt  fine  beside  him.  The  friendship
pleased  him  none  the  less  for  this.  Courtesies,  however  expensive,  
are  pleasant.  He  did  not  esteem
Macario the less. He found certain qualities in this young man who was so 
elegant, an unconscious artist,
intelligent even when speaking of things he knew nothing about.

Macario owned a little sailing-cutter and often invited Alfonso for morning 
trips in the bay. Alfonso’s life
being so empty, those trips were a real joy. In the boat it was also easier for 
him to agree with Macario’s
assertions, most of which he did not even hear. He was still trying hard to 
acquire the health necessary,
he considered, for the life of hard work he intended to undertake, and sea air 
should help him find it.

One morning a gusty wind was blowing, and, at the end of the mole where they 
were standing waiting
for the boat to come and fetch them, Alfonso suggested to Macario putting off 
their sail that morning as it
seemed dangerous. Macario began to jeer and would not hear of it.

The  cutter  approached.  Heeling  under  white  sails  swollen  in  the  wind, 
 it  seemed  about  to  turn  over
every  instant  but  straightened  up  at  the  last  second.  Alfonso,  on  
land,  was  seized  by  those  nervous
tremors  which  people  get  when  they  see  others  in  danger  of  falling  
and,  had  it  not  been  for  his  fear  of
Macario, would have happily let him leave alone.

Ferdinando,  a  port-worker  who  had  been  a  sailor,  was  in  charge  of  
the  boat.  He  left  his  place  at  the
helm to Macario, who sat down after taking off his jacket as if in preparation 
for great efforts.

“Let her go now!” he called to Ferdinando.

Ferdinando jumped on land and dragged the cutter by the bowsprit from one 
corner of the mole to the
other; then he jumped back and with one foot on land and the other on the boat 
he gave it a push out to
sea.

Alfonso looked at him, frightened of seeing him fall into the water; the 
imminence of danger, small as it
was, startled him.

“How agile!” he said to Ferdinando.

He  felt  himself  to  be  in  the  man’s  hands  and  had  an  unconscious  
desire  to  make  friends.  Ferdinando
raised a head, youthful in spite of baldness and the grey in his beard, and 
thanked him. As this was not
his  real  job,  he  very  much  wanted  to  seem  good  at  it.  But  he  
misunderstood  the  purpose  of  Alfonso’s
comment. He strained the sail towards himself and fixed it, putting all his 
weight into stretching it taut.
Immediately the wind which seemed to blow up that very moment swelled it out 
and the boat heeled right
over        on the very side where Alfonso was sitting.

He  had  intended  making  a  great  show  of  cool-headedness,  but  his  
intentions  could  not  cope  with  his
sudden terror. He was just able to avoid shouting out loud but leaped to his 
feet and flung himself on to
the other side, hoping to straighten up the boat by his weight. Now that he 
felt further from the water he
grew a little calmer and sat down, gripping the gunwale.

Macario  looked  at  him  with  a  slight  smile.  He  felt  well  and  calm,  
and  to  emphasise  the  distance
between himself and Alfonso more clearly he kept the cutter very close to the 
wind. Alfonso saw the smile
and tried to look calm. He pointed out to Macario some white mountain tops on 
the horizon whose bases
were not visible.

As they passed the lighthouse, he was able to measure the speed with which they 
were cutting across
the water—then started as the boat seemed about to crash against rocks.

“Can you swim?” asked Macario, all serene. “If the worst comes to the worst we 
can swim back. But—”


and he pretended to be very worried, “even if you feel you’re drowning, don’t 
seize me, because then we
shall both be lost. Ferdinando and I will see to you. Won’t we, Nando?”

The other gave a roar of laughter, and promised.

Macario  then  began  pensively  discoursing  on  the  effects  of  fear.  
Every  ten  words  he  raised  and
languidly waved an aristocratic hand, and all the hints in the hollowed hand 
Alfonso knew referred to him
and to his fear.

“More people die from fear than from courage. For example, if they fall into 
the water, those who seize
whatever’s  nearest  to  them  are  the  ones  who  die”  and  he  winked  
towards  Alfonso’s  hands  nervously
clutching the gunwale.

They passed by green Sant’Andrea without Alfonso being able to master himself. 
He looked but did not
enjoy.

The town, when he saw it on the way back, had a gloomy look. He felt very 
unwell and tired out, as if he
had  come  a  long  way  some  time  ago  and  not  had  a  good  rest  since.  
This  must  be  seasickness,  and  he
provoked Macario’s laughter by telling him so.

“In this sea!”

In  fact  the  sea  was  lashed  by  an  off-shore  wind  and  had  no  waves.  
Wide  patches  were  crinkly,  others
beaten by wind which seemed to have smoothed off the surface. In the dips there 
was a gay murmuring
like that produced by innumerable washerwomen moving their washing about in 
running water.

Alfonso was so pale that Macario took pity on him and ordered Ferdinando to 
shorten sail.
They were inside the port but to reach the point of departure had to tack in 
front of it twice.

Little calls of seagulls could be heard. To distract Alfonso, Macario wanted 
him to observe the flight of
these  birds,  as  calm  and  straight  as  if  on  a  highroad,  and  their  
rapid  falls  like  bits  of  lead.  They  looked
lonely, each flying on its own account, with great white wings outstretched and 
a disproportionately small
body covered with light feathers.

“Made just for fishing and eating” philosophized Macario. “How little brain it 
takes to catch fish! Their
bodies are small. Think what size their brain must be! Negligible! Those wings 
are the danger to fish, who
end in a seagull’s beak because of them! What eyes and stomach, what an 
appetite, to satisfy which such
a  drop  is  nothing!  But  brain?  What  has  brain  to  do  with  catching  
fish?  You  study,  you  spend  hours  at  a
desk  nourishing  your  brain  uselessly.  Anyone  who  isn’t  born  with  the  
necessary  wings  will  never  grow
them afterwards. Anyone who can’t drop instinctively and at the right second 
like lead on prey will never
learn, and there’ll be no point in his watching others who can, as he’ll never 
be able to imitate them. One
dies in the precise state in which one is born, our hands mere organs made for 
catching instinctively or
letting what one has fall through one’s fingers.”

This speech impressed Alfonso. He felt miserable at having been seized with 
agitation about something
so unimportant.

“And have I got wings?” he asked, sketching a smile.

“Yes, to make poetic flights!” replied Macario, waving a hollowed hand, though 
the phrase contained no
underlying hint requiring a gesture of that kind for it to be understood.


IX

NNETTA  HAD  RETURNED  to  town  about  a  month  before  her  father,  who  
had  gone  straight  from  the
country to Rome on business. In that month a number of Maller’s telegrams 
passed through Alfonso’s
hands,  carelessly  jotted,  higgledy-piggledy.  They  were  about  business,  
and  Alfonso  was  loth  to  take  the
trouble to read them. The last was shown to him by Starringer, the 
dispatch-clerk, through whose hands
all correspondence passed and who had to read everything. Maller’s last 
telegram ended with the words:

“Warn family of my arrival tomorrow, and arrange carriage to meet me at 
station.”

Signor Maller must have been back twenty-four hours, and Alfonso had not yet 
seen him. He expected
at any moment to meet him face to face and walked more timidly than usual along 
the passage.

Miceni came to tell him that he had just come from Maller’s room where he had 
been to welcome him.
Maller  had  greeted  him  with  great  courtesy  and  shaken  his  hand  
twice.  Miceni  was  usually  acidly
democratic when speaking of his superiors, but that day, under the impression 
of those two handshakes,
he  was  gentler;  they  seemed  to  have  made  him  forget  his  quarrel  
with  Sanneo.  Not  only  did  he  praise
Signor Maller for his courtesy but was pleased, as a loyal employee, at finding 
him so well.

“D’you advise me to go and welcome him too?”
“Nearly everyone has; do whatever you think best.”

Alchieri  had  gone,  but  that  was  no  precedent,  for  Sanneo  had  sent  
him  to  the  manager’s  office  on
business,  and  so  he  had  welcomed  Maller  by  chance.  White  could  even  
less  be  used  as  an  example  for
Alfonso because the managers’ offices were like his own, and he spent half his 
day in them.

Ballina  did  not  want  to  go.  He  was  firm.  “One  doesn’t  jeer  at  
Jesus,  but  one  does  at  his  vicars.  When
Sanneo  returned,  I  went  to  welcome  him  because  I  knew  he  liked  that 
 and  was  not  clever  enough  to
understand that I only did it as a diplomatic gesture. But Signor Maller 
already knows that he is master of
us        all, and I don’t allow myself any jokes with him.”

For a whole day Alfonso remained undecided. He had forgotten to ask the advice 
of Macario, who would
have swept away all doubts with a single word. Anything at all doubtful 
eventually became important for
Alfonso.  He  feared  that  by  going  he  would  bore  Maller,  who  might  
show  it,  but  if  he  didn’t,  his  absence
would be taken as lack of respect.

He  was  about  to  leave  the  bank,  putting  off  the  difficult  decision  
till  the  next  day,  when  it  was  made
easier  by  seeing  a  number  of  clerks  waiting  in  the  passage  to  go  
into  Maller’s  office  and  welcome  him.
Quickly he decided to join them.

Out  of  the  manager’s  room  came  old  Marlucci,  a  Tuscan  who  always  
spoke  regretfully  of  the  grand-
ducal  government.  He  was  about  sixty  and,  by  sitting  for  twenty  
years  or  so  behind  a  big  ledger,  had
become a great friend of Jassy. They came and went together, linked by the same 
misfortune, weakness of
the  legs;  but  while  Jassy  had  a  vacillating  brain  and  weak,  
twitching  hands,  the  Tuscan  had  calm  black
eyes  and  limpid  and  precise  speech.  Daily  in  his  ledger  he  lined  up 
 his  given  quota  of  neat  ordered
figures,  and  there  were  no  corrections  in  his  books  apart  from  those 
 made  necessary  by  other  sections’
mistakes.

Alfonso, following the impulse given by his preoccupation, asked him: “And what 
does one say to Signor
Maller?”

“If you don’t know, keep silent!” replied Marlucci laughing, and passed him by.

There was no other employee except White with Maller, who was giving him 
instructions. A woman was
sitting in the embrasure of the window; without looking at her Alfonso guessed 
this was Annetta and felt
the blood rush to his heart.

Signor  Maller  interrupted  his  consultation  with  White  for  an  instant.  
He  held  out  his  hand  to  Alfonso
and with a cold smile asked him if he were well. Then he withdrew his hand and 
began talking to White
again.

Alfonso was just leaving when he was stopped by a sweet, feminine voice which 
sounded out of place in
that room: “Signor Nitti!”

He  stopped  and  turned  round.  It  was  Annetta.  She  was  wearing  a  grey 
 dress,  with  the  grey  veil  of  a
little round hat raised over a white forehead. A chaste but matronly figure.

She held out her hand.

“Are you angry with me that you refuse to see me?”

Alfonso protested that he really had not seen her. He was stuttering but saying 
more than was strictly
necessary.

“Not that I’m blaming you,” she said in a softer voice and so confidentially 
that he quivered with joyful
surprise,  worrying  what  the  others  present  might  think.  “In  fact  
you’re  quite  right.  Now  give  me  your
hand and in a more friendly way than last time.”

She  smiled  and  gazed  at  him,  expecting  to  find  her  kindness  
answered.  Alfonso  made  an  effort  and
smiled with gratitude. He was flattered at her showing that she remembered the 
details of that evening.

She  looked  at  her  hand  enclosed  in  Alfonso’s.  Alfonso  opened  his  and 
 looked  too.  Her  white  plump
hand, half-covered by a glove, lay in his rough one whose third finger was 
black with ink.

“D’you often see my cousin?”
“Almost every evening!”

“He talks a lot of you!”
“Thanks!” muttered Alfonso.


These thanks were meant for Macario.

“Is  there  any  chance  of  seeing  you  at  our  home  some  time?  You’ll  
be  less  bored  than  last  time,  you’ll
see.”

Alfonso  muttered  some  vague  words.  From  their  sound  she  understood  
that  he  was  putting  himself  at
her disposal.

“Come tomorrow evening. There may be a few friends. But don’t bother about 
them, as you don’t like
people, they tell me. My home is always open to you.”

Laughing, Maller got to his feet.

“Dear friends, this room is a business office. If you wish to chatter, go into 
Signor Nitti’s room.”

Annetta was not put out by this interruption. She answered her father by 
suggesting he should get his
business  over  soon,  or  she  would  go  off  without  waiting  for  him  any 
 longer.  Alfonso  she  dismissed  in  a
gentler tone and with a polite smile, maybe partly in pity at seeing him 
blushing to the roots of his hair.

Soon after, White came to see him and, as Alchieri was there, tactfully spoke 
in a low voice.
“Congratulations on the friendship you’ve struck up with Signora Annetta. She’s 
pretty but dangerous.

Take care not to fall in love with her.”

The  next  evening  Macario  took  him  along  to  Annetta’s.  On  entering  
the  hall  Alfonso  remembered  his
state of mind when leaving it some months before, and that visit seemed to 
assume great importance in
his life. In fact Annetta had made  him feel bitter at the  very start of  his 
life  in town, and this bitterness
had  left  its  imprint  on  all  he  had  done  afterwards.  It  had  
increased  his  natural  shyness  and  made  his
relations with Maller, Sanneo, and all his superiors more difficult. Now at 
last he would have somewhere
other than the Lanuccis’ where he could allow himself to behave not just as a 
humble inferior.

On the way to Annetta’s Macario gave him a description of the people whom he 
would presumably meet
there.

First  Spalati,  a  teacher  of  languages  and  Italian  literature  from  
whom  Annetta  was  taking  lessons.  To
judge  from  his  description,  Macario  did  not  like  him  much.  He  
proclaimed  himself  a  ‘realist’  but  would
inveigh  pedantically  against  any  Italian  writer  who  used  words  not  
legitimized  by  Petrarch.  Macario
admitted he was also a very handsome young man, and obviously it was this 
quality which deprived him of
his biographer’s sympathy.

In the desire to surround herself as soon as possible with people suitable to 
her new interests, Annetta
had drawn on her most intelligent acquaintances. Among others Fumigi, a 
relative of Maller’s, aged about
forty.  Macario  said  that  he  was  known  to  be  yearning  to  get  free  
of  his  office  work  in  order  to  dedicate
himself wholly to his favourite study, mathematics. He was head of an important 
firm of merchants, and
gossip had it that he could perfectly well be free if he wished to, which was 
Macario’s opinion too. It was
quite natural that other desires had eventually been overridden by Fumigi’s 
hard everyday work.

“I think his only real inclination now is towards the kind of mathematics whose 
results can actually be
touched.  He  keeps  up  his  mathematician’s  air  because  it  must  be  
pleasant  to  be  looked  upon  as  future
discoverer of how to square the circle.”

Annetta’s  evenings  were  also  frequented  by  a  young  doctor  called  
Prarchi,  who  had  recently  left
university and was one of the few people in this world passionately attached to 
his own job and not to that
of  others,  according  to  Macario.  “Annetta  met  him  at  a  health  spa,  
and  with  the  small  amount  of  good
taste  she  has  and  which  she  owes  to  me,  she  likes  to  hear  real  
things  talked  about,  including  medicine.
The  young  man  has  one  big  defect,  an  exaggerated  opinion  of  his  own 
 qualities.  He  so  much  enjoys
talking  about  medicine  that  he  sometimes  even  talks  about  doses.  
Actually  Annetta  has  confided  to  me,
and  this  must  remain  between  us,  that  all  this  company  bores  her.  
Last  year  when  she  had  genuine
friendships  with  other  people  who  were  of  less  quality  but  lived  
better,  I  must  confess  the  house  was
jollier.”

On reaching the landing they heard the sound of a piano. Macario asked Santo 
who was playing.
“Signorina Annetta!” then replying as usual more than he was asked, “For the 
last hour or so!”

“Oh,  the  wonderful  patience  of  these  people!”  exclaimed  Macario,  
turning  to  Alfonso.  He  asked  Santo
who they were.

“There’s no one here!”

“Isn’t it Wednesday today?” asked Macario, perplexed.

“Yes, sir. But the Signorina sent to tell Professor Spalati, I know because I 
went myself, not to come as
she had a bad headache.”

“Then ask the Signorina if she feels like receiving us, as her headache may be 
for us too.”
The sound of the piano stopped and Annetta came to meet them at the living-room 
door.
“Do come in!” she cried. “My headache’s gone.”

Macario had preceded Alfonso. He stopped firmly: “On condition you don’t give 
it to us. Promise not to
play any more!”

“You know quite well that you’d have to beg me to play if you were listening!”
They entered. Annetta concentrated on Alfonso and let Macario sit down alone.

Alfonso  felt  quite  free  of  embarrassment,  which  must  have  been  melted 
 by  Annetta’s  cordiality.  He
found himself thinking up fine phrases as if he were alone in the room; but 
when he tried to say them, he
lost his nerve and cut them short by stuttering.

He  muttered  that  he  would  so  much  like  to  hear  Annetta  play,  while  
what  he  intended  to  say,  when
stopped by Macario’s taunt, was that if he’d had a headache, the sound of the 
piano would have cured it.
Annetta thanked him, after helping him to complete  his  phrase,  and  he  
realized  how  very  easy  it  was  to
cut     a good figure with those who have no intention of making one cut a bad 
one.


It was actually her headache, said Annetta, that had driven her to the piano. 
Macario did not speak; and
the  pair,  conversing  for  the  first  time,  kept  to  the  same  subject  
as  though  fearing  they  would  not  find
another if they left it. Annetta said once more that she could understand music 
giving others a headache,
but that the concentration needed to play could be a distraction from worry or 
sickness.

Alfonso admired the truth of this observation and would have liked to confirm 
it by quoting one of his
philosophers who equated pains with worry and suggested distraction as a remedy 
for both. But he kept
silent and nodded a smile of assent. At the last moment he had taken fright at 
those simple but well-linked
phrases of his and heroically renounced saying them, rather than expose himself 
to the danger of mixing
them up.

What made him rather uneasy was a careful examination of his own feelings. He 
had begun to do this
the moment he had crossed the threshold of that room. This woman was certainly 
not indifferent to him.
But  he  had  suffered  for  months  from  her  ill-treatment.  Now  on  the  
other  hand  he  was  behaving  very
coldly, stupidly coldly. He sensed that to keep Annetta’s friendship he would 
have to show himself slightly
infatuated with her, and this he could not manage to do.

Annetta got up to hand Macario the piece of music she had been playing, and 
Alfonso was delighted to
feel a quiver of sudden desire. She was so close to him that as she got up he 
could not see all of her, just a
well-rounded bosom and a trim though not slim waist, firmly enclosed in her 
favourite grey material.

She had been playing a Beethoven symphony arranged for piano.
“How did you play it, I wonder?”

“Not well,” said Annetta with a smile.

“It must be difficult,” observed Alfonso, looking at a sheet full of notes.

“Impossible!”  corrected  Annetta.  She  described  how  she  had  heard  it  
played  by  an  orchestra  a  short
time  before.  It  would  be  no  satisfaction  performing  it  on  the  piano. 
 “Anyway,  I  put  up  with  far  less  than
perfection. I leave out half these notes, for instance.”

“But,”  exclaimed  Alfonso,  “it’s  a  pleasure  …  particularly  for  a  
listener  …  one  seems  to  hear  the  notes
left out.”

“Yes, indeed! In one’s imagination!”

“When one’s imagination is in tune with the player,” observed Macario calmly.
“You’re doing some studying, I’m told?” asked Annetta seriously.

“A little, what I can!”

“A  lot,  I’m  told.  I  do  wish  I  could  do  the  same!  Are  you  writing  
anything?  Will  you  publish  something
soon?”

“Not for the moment.”

The thought of his study on morality flashed into his mind, and if he had only 
finished the first chapter
he would have spoken of it.

“Women want immediate results!” said Macario laughing.

Macario was defending him and treating him with more respect than when they 
were alone. He seemed
to  want  Annetta  to  think  highly  of  him,  and  only  very  much  later  
did  Alfonso  realize  that  Macario  had
taken him to that house not for Alfonso’s advantage but to amuse Annetta, whose 
gratitude he wanted to
earn.

Now,  from  the  direction  which,  as  Alfonso  knew  from  Santo’s  
explanation,  must  be  that  of  Maller’s
reception  room,  Francesca  entered.  Alfonso  sprang  to  his  feet.  He  
wanted  to  show  his  thanks  to  his  old
friend, the only one who had at once received him well in the Maller home.

It  was  obvious  from  the  Signorina’s  bearing  that  she  did  not  intend  
to  stay  in  the  room.  She  returned
Alfonso’s greeting with a nod.

“Please  don’t  get  up.”  She  did  not  greet  Macario  and  turning  to  
Annetta  said  “I’m  in  my  room  if  you
need me.”

She had quite a different bearing from usual, less free, more reserved; she was 
very pale and dressed
more carelessly. Beside Annetta’s her figure lacked shape. Only the warm colour 
of her hair gave light to
her suffering face. She went out at once, and Alfonso saw Macario looking with 
curiosity towards Annetta,
who, when Francesca left, gave him a meaningful look as if pointing out to him 
how badly the other had
behaved.

“Why don’t you publish some of your work as soon as possible to make a 
reputation? Some young men
become pedants before their time from love of accuracy—they prefer finish above 
all—and end by doing
nothing. I know that by accounts given to me. Polish needs not only talent but 
critical sense. One can be
an artist when one writes, but when one polishes, one has to be an artist and a 
scientist.”

Her face, still very serious since Francesca’s departure, cleared at this last 
idea. It must have given her
some satisfaction to say it. Anyway, it was an idea of which Alfonso himself 
would have been proud. She
managed those critical concepts with great ease.

“You are advising me to publish and give me advice but no example.” The phrase 
was short, very short,
but it had been said without hesitation.

“We women have other things to consider. But” she added laughing, “I hope that 
you won’t be able to
reprove me like that in a few months’ time.”

Alfonso  congratulated  her.  Macario  gave  a  cry  of  surprise  and  wanted  
to  know  something  about  what
writing  Annetta  was  doing,  about  which  she  had  not  said  a  word  to  
him  till  then.  Knowing  Annetta’s
literary character only by the facetious description given him by Macario, 
Alfonso thought that as she had
been silent about it till then, her book must be in an even more embryonic 
state than his own and that she
had mentioned it only to soothe her wounded vanity.


Finally the subject changed, due to Annetta herself. They talked about the 
imminent theatrical season,
but more of people in the boxes and stalls than those on the stage; and Alfonso 
kept silent. Macario and
Annetta  amused  themselves  naming  and  describing  young  men  who  
frequented  the  stalls,  and  from  the
moment  when  Annetta  began  joking  about  them,  and  accompanying  her  
jests  by  long  trills  of  loud
laughter which made her twist about and show her plump white neck on which 
tension drew a few faint
lines,  Alfonso  felt  uncomfortable.  He  felt  as  if  he  were  watching  
her  sing  that  peculiar  song  again  and
prancing about in front of him as shamelessly as a Roman matron before her own 
slave.

They  would  speak  of  art  again  another  time,  as  Annetta  said  
smilingly  at  the  moment  of  farewell.
Alfonso who, on his few visits to the theatre, had soon noticed the harm done 
to the performance  by  the
spectators’  chatter,  suggested  introducing  into  theatres  the  German  
system  of  imposing  silence  and
lowering lights in the auditorium. He could no longer agree with Annetta for 
the simple reason that she
took  the  opposite  view  after  he  had  already  given  his.  In  a  theatre 
 Annetta  cared  less  about  the
performance  on  the  stage  than  about  the  audience.  She  said  that  she  
preferred  watching  people  like
herself rather than wretched creatures performing with other wretched 
creatures.

“One misses the art, I realize that, but is the art of the theatre a real art?”

She made a gesture of contempt which filled Alfonso once again with admiration. 
He was incapable of
embracing other people’s ideas so blindly.

As  he  went  out,  Alfonso  noticed  on  the  landing  above  a  woman  who  
hurriedly  withdrew  on  seeing
Macario. She was Francesca’s height, but Alfonso could not see her face.

He felt drawn closer to Macario by that visit than by the months of their 
former relationship. At once he
was indiscreet: “Odd that Signora Francesca didn’t stay and keep us company. 
The other time she seemed
so expansive and happy. What could have made her so unsociable?”

“A  headache  probably,”  replied  Macario  briefly,  and  changed  the  
subject.  “So  you  see  my  cousin  is
better  than  her  reputation  or  than  the  idea  you  had  of  her.  You  
heard  her  invitation.  From  now  on  you
belong to what Spalati calls ‘The Wednesday Club’. Try and become a good friend 
of my cousin’s, because
her friendship can be a help to you.”

He  was  talking  seriously.  The  help  to  which  he  alluded  was  Annetta’s 
 protection  in  the  office.  Alfonso
found  the  allusion  tactless,  and  flushed;  but  he  did  not  protest  and 
 in  fact  gave  Macario  a  very  friendly
handshake  when  he  said  goodbye.  He  might  not  like  to  be  thought  of  
as  someone  trying  to  achieve  his
own  ends  by  unusual  means;  but  he  felt  he  should  be  all  the  more  
grateful  to  a  man  who  apparently
wanted to help him even though thinking him unscrupulous.


X

IGNORA CAROLINA  wrote to Alfonso with great regularity. Her letters showed 
what a strain writing was
for her and how only her high notion of motherly duty induced her to send her 
son those regular two
pages  in  her  spidery  hand.  Writing  can  take  the  place  of  talking  
only  for  the  cultured.  Usually  these
letters  were  filled  with  advice  or  greetings  on  her  own  and  others’  
account;  and  obviously  the  writer
found  her  labour  lightened  when  there  was  some  big  event  in  the  
village,  a  wedding  or  death  involving

someone they knew. Then the two pages became three or four.

He received a letter from his mother the day after his visit to Annetta, and, 
even in his state of agitation
at the time, its contents aroused his lively interest. It was a letter of four 
sides, the first two of which were
as  usual  because  obviously  written  without  the  writer  thinking  she  
would  have  to  add  the  other  two.  In
the last part Signora Carolina told how Signorina Francesca had written, asking 
whether there was space
enough in the house to rent her a room. Signorina Francesca’s letter must have 
been very warm; it also
contained  a  sad  phrase  or  two  that  had  surprised  Signora  Carolina,  
who  was  not  without  acumen,  and
supposed  Signorina  Francesca  must  be  feeling  very  miserable  to  write  
so  affectionately  to  someone  she
scarcely knew. “She seems very sad about coming: I’ve given her the room she 
asks for but feel I’d prefer
happier company.”

The  reason  why  Signorina  Francesca  was  leaving  the  Maller  home  must  
certainly  be  the  same  one
which  had  made  her  bearing  change  so.  There  must  have  been  a  real  
quarrel  with  Annetta,  after  which
the weaker side had to leave the field.

Perhaps when Macario found that Alfonso already knew so much, he would also 
tell him the rest. That
evening Alfonso met him walking with an elderly man who was gesticulating as he 
described something
which  must  have  been  most  interesting,  for  Macario  was  listening  
attentively.  Between  the  two  Alfonso
thought he noticed the same relationship as between himself and Macario.

He  did  not  usually  stop  Macario  in  the  street,  for  he  often  saw  
him  with  others  or  striding  along
absorbed in his own thoughts, but as he had something to tell him which would 
be of interest, he had no
scruples. He went up to him.

“I’d like a word with you!”

Before  hearing  this  Macario  was  about  to  pass  him  by  with  a  polite  
greeting.  When  he  heard  it,  he
turned to dismiss his companion, then asked Alfonso whether the matter would 
take long.

“Only a second!” replied Alfonso, already regretting he had stopped him.
The other man agreed to wait.

Now he must be concise, exposing himself to the risk of Macario answering with 
a shrug in reproof for
stopping him about a futile matter. This did not happen, quite the opposite in 
fact. Macario stood listening
attentively, making gestures of surprise. To increase the matter’s importance 
Alfonso also made mention
of Signora Carolina’s observations about Signorina Francesca’s sadness. 
Macario, supposing that this had
all  been  told  to  get  his  advice,  said  Alfonso  must  ask  Signora  
Carolina  to  help  Signorina  Francesca  as
much as she could. Then he returned to the other man who was still waiting for 
him, and Alfonso found
that he had told all and learnt nothing.

A  few  days  later  he  was  called  by  Maller.  His  chief  had  never  been 
 so  pleasant;  he  spoke  simply  and
without  his  glance  moving  from  one  side  of  his  desk  to  the  other  
as  it  did  when  he  tried  not  to  look  his
interlocutor in the face. He requested that since Signorina Francesca could not 
write herself because she
was unwell, would he, Alfonso, please write to Signora Carolina with the 
Signorina’s excuses and cancel
the  request  she  had  made  a  few  days  before.  Alfonso  promptly  
declared  that  he  would  write  straight
away.

Maller smiled, bowed in thanks and, taking him at his word, said that he wanted 
Signora Carolina to be
told  at  once  of  Signorina  Francesca’s  change  of  arrangements  in  order 
 to  avoid  the  bother  of  useless
preparations.  There  must  however  have  been  another  reason  for  his  
wanting  things  done  in  such  haste,
for he even lowered himself to repeating his request all over again, as if a 
single word from him was not
enough to give Alfonso wings.

“Can I be sure then that you’ll write today for certain?”
“Of course!” assured Alfonso in surprise.

In fact he wrote off at once to his mother to tell her that Signorina Francesca 
had given up the idea of
retiring to the country. So concentrated was he on carrying out Maller’s order 
as soon as possible that his
letter became so curt he had to follow it up immediately afterwards by another, 
sending her his own news
and  those  assurances  of  unchanging  affection  which  Signora  Carolina  
expected  to  find  in  every  letter
from him.

He had taken his letter to Starringer for immediate posting, and in the passage 
on his way back to his
room he met Maller leaving. In his eagerness to show zeal and eliminate any 
preoccupation Maller might
have about the order being carried out, he said smiling: “I’ve already sent 
that letter.”

“Thanks!” said Maller, who stood there in surprise for a second as if he no 
longer remembered what it
was about. His tone of voice was also colder than the one he had used 
half-an-hour ago.

This  was  enough  to  throw  Alfonso  into  agitation.  He  had  been  wrong  
to  stop  his  chief  with  such
familiarity in front of the ushers and still more wrong to speak to him about a 
service he had done him as
if asking for thanks in return.

In his room he found only Alchieri, ready to leave. Agitation made Alfonso 
talkative. He could not bear


his worry alone; a soothing word from an outsider could calm him. He told 
Alchieri about the letter from
his  mother  and  his  interview  with  Signor  Maller.  Alchieri  listened  
distractedly  because  he  was  worried
about his own affairs. He was waiting impatiently for the result of a request 
of his for a pay-rise which he
had  sent  to  the  managing  director  that  day;  he  had  threatened  to  
leave  his  job  and  hinted  that  he  had
another one in view, though actually he would be a ruined man if taken at his 
word.

“Was I very wrong to stop Signor Maller in the corridor?”

At  this  question  from  Alfonso,  Alchieri,  who  had  been  able  to  give  
his  attention  only  to  a  part  of  what
was told him, replied: “She’s his mistress, I’ll bet!”

This  supposition  seemed  so  likely  to  be  correct  that  Alfonso  was  
surprised  at  not  having  thought  of  it
himself before. Alchieri’s own malice had suggested it, but in the light of 
circumstances known to Alfonso
it  was  probably  true.  What  else  could  have  happened  to  change  so  
much  the  relations  between  Annetta
and  Francesca,  and  the  latter’s  bearing?  However  natural  it  was  that  
Maller  had  been  charged  with
speaking  to  him,  his  way  of  setting  about  it  seemed  unusual,  his  
employees  being  accustomed  only  to
receiving short and concise  orders in official tones. Alfonso had been told 
that Maller was a womaniser,
but Alchieri’s supposition had never come into his head because Maller’s home, 
even if he had known of
his  habits,  had  seemed  enveloped  in  an  aura  which  let  no  human  
passions  penetrate  except  vanity  and
pride.  It  had  been  difficult  for  Alfonso  to  imagine  love  in  those  
cold  showrooms,  most  of  which  were
unused, still less in Maller’s bedroom where, so Santo had told him, there 
stood his young wife’s bed in
which  she  had  died,  still  left  intact.  But  the  suspicion  of  
Alchieri,  a  man  who  had  never  set  foot  in  that
house,  was  enough  to  melt  that  aura,  and  Alfonso’s  imagination  
populated  it  with  criminal  loves  all  the
murkier for the surrounding luxury.

Francesca’s   seduction   did   seem   criminal,   made   easy   as   it   was  
 by   her   inferior   position.   He   felt
something  akin  to  jealousy  in  imagining  that  fair  hair  and  white  
flesh  thrown  into  the  arms  of  that  cold
man Maller, an affair which would ruin her life but which would cost him 
nothing at all and have no more
value to him than a pastime.

He did not understand what part Annetta played in this affair. Probably she had 
tried to get Francesca
away and not succeeded.

For the first time he dreamt of becoming Annetta’s lover. It seemed less 
impossible now that he saw her
amid love-intrigues which no one bothered to hide from her. The dream became 
easier. He did not go so
far as to dream of being loved though, because he could not imagine an 
expression of affection or desire
on her calm marmoreal face. His was the dream of a vicious boy, in which she 
abandoned herself to him
coldly, for pleasure, to revenge herself on a third person, or even from her 
ambition. His dreams always
began  by  embroidering  on  reality  and  then  detached  themselves  from  it 
 completely—he  easily  imagined
himself being of such value in Annetta’s eyes that her ambition made her love 
him.

He  could  not  think  of  any  way  of  visiting  Annetta  alone.  The  
invitation  she  had  given  him  had  not
seemed definite enough, and, having all week sought Macario in vain to 
accompany him, he did not go on
the first Wednesday. Those dreams of his about Annetta probably made him even 
more timid in case he let
something of them slip out.

But  he  wanted  to  see  Annetta  again,  more  intensely  now  than  the  
first  time,  when  it  had  been  just  a
matter of getting himself liked by his boss’s daughter. Now he loved her! For 
this must be love, this desire
for one person and for no one else. He drew conclusions from his agitated 
senses, being unable to do so
from feelings he lacked. In the few days when he had tried unsuccessfully to 
smother his desires and give
them another direction, he had felt himself become a man, an adult.

He  desired  a  woman,  that  particular  woman,  and  for  him,  for  his  
senses,  no  other  women  existed.  He
remembered some observations he had made on Annetta’s appearance and was now 
amazed he had not
realized  at  once  that  the  originality  and  beauty  of  her  face  were  
made  up  precisely  of  what  he  had
qualified as defects. Her eyes not dark enough! Her hair not curly enough! 
Annetta had a face of Venus,
and  that  head  of  hers  with  its  calm  blue  eyes  and  almost  modestly  
smooth  hair  was  a  head  full  of
intelligence. A kiss would have been all the more delicious on lips which 
seemed incapable of responding!

When on the following Wednesday he ran into Macario, who reproved him strongly 
on Annetta’s behalf
for having failed to come the week before, Alfonso quivered with joy. He was 
sought after, called.

Then Annetta too reproved him, gently. She said that Macario had told her not 
to alarm him.
“Or I’d shout at you! Why should you be timid with me? Do I frighten you?”

These  blandishments,  however,  touched  him  less  than  the  ones  she  had  
sent  by  her  messenger.  With
her before his eyes he forgot his dreams. She was all intent on forming her 
literary group, and her natural
coldness,  which  would  take  on  in  memory  the  air  of  some  minor  
quality,  was  now  very  apparent  and
coloured everything else. When she spoke of literature she was not female. She 
was a male struggling for
life, morally a being of muscle.

That afternoon her drawing-room seemed very snug, as outside the bora  wind had 
broken out violently
and swept away every vestige of summer in a few hours.

Alfonso and Macario found Spalati there, having arrived a short time before; 
Fumigi and Doctor Prarchi
came immediately afterwards.

Doctor  Prarchi  turned  the  conversation  away  from  literature  by  
describing  the  suicide  of  a  cashier
whom  they  had  known.  This  was  someone  who  had  lived  very  modestly  
and  done  nothing  worse  than
frequent people richer than himself. That had been enough to ruin him in spite 
of his moderation. Prarchi
ended his description with some word of genuine compassion. He had also seen 
the suicide’s body.

Annetta shrugged her shoulders with contempt. “Serves him right!” She had not 
liked the fellow much:
perhaps she was afraid her father would come across someone similar.


Alfonso  found  himself  too  involved  in  a  discussion  with  Fumigi  to  be 
 able  to  turn  his  attention  to  the
general  conversation.  The  little  man  had  plumped  down  beside  him  and  
was  questioning  him  on  his
studies. These must have been much talked about because the mathematician was 
admiring and flattering
him. He wanted to know how Alfonso had arranged his timetable to dedicate one 
or more hours daily to
those studies. He said he had never been able to achieve such regularity 
himself and was worried because
only systematic study brought profit, not study in fits and starts.

All  Alfonso’s  attention  was  on  Annetta.  But  he  felt  no  desire  in  
her  presence,  which  worried  him.  He
tried  to  provoke  them,  studied  her  face  to  see  if  he  could  find  
there  any  sign  of  the  passion  which  was
lacking  in  himself.  The  moment  was  badly  chosen,  just  after  that  
crude  remark  of  hers  about  that
cashier’s suicide.

He felt a need, or thought he did, to define the respect which prevented him 
noticing the affectation of
her  behaviour.  When  Macario  had  described  her  for  the  first  time,  he 
 had  felt  like  laughing  at  this  little
woman who had suddenly felt a vocation, even though this vocation was an 
advantage to himself. All this
show,  these  pretensions  to  forming  a  literary  society  around  her,  
were  ridiculous  too,  and  if  he  did  not
laugh at them, it was not because of any change in his feelings about them. He 
easily noticed the false or
absurd side of others’ actions, but often found he could not laugh at them 
because the shyness which he
was   apt   to   feel   with   people   in   other   ways   inferior   made   
him   doubt   himself,   his   own   feelings   or
judgements.  And  this  time  it  was  no  different.  He  was  impressed  by  
Annetta’s  lack  of  doubts,  her  self-
confidence,  her  carelessness  about  the  impression  she  made  on  others,  
the  air  she  had,  in  fact,  of  a
superior  creature  who  feels  she  cannot  be  diminished  by  any  
inferiority  even  in  the  very  thing  in  which
she wishes to excel and where inferiority is usually most bitter.

Prarchi spoke of a realist novel he was writing.

“I’ll  remain  a  doctor,”  he  said,  “even  as  a  novelist.  In  my  novel  
I  intend  to  make  a  thorough  study  of
progressive paralysis. Doctors begin studying it when it’s at its last stages; 
but I’ll be just leaving it then,
as  I’ll  begin  at  its  formation.  The  character  of  a  paralytic,  the  
organism  of  a  paralytic,  the  ideas  of  a
paralytic, what causes distress to people around them and … the novel’s done!”

“Yes,” exclaimed Annetta, “the novel is, but what about its success?”

Alfonso, who had some experience in this field, felt a vague intuition from 
Prarchi’s description that he
had  written  nothing  at  all  of  the  novel  described  and  had  actually  
got  the  first  idea  for  it  at  that  very
moment.

Prarchi  was  sturdy  without  being  fat.  He  was  not  good-looking,  with  
a  large  almost  bald  head,  and  a
small, too fair moustache on his broad face.

Alfonso  should  have  found  Fumigi  more  sympathetic,  particularly  because 
 the  latter  addressed  him
most of that evening. That was only because Fumigi disliked speaking out loud 
and was rather quiet, his
thin little body leaning over the back of his chair, listening attentively and 
putting in a rare word in a low
voice to his neighbour. The hair on his head was grey, his moustache and beard 
still black.

Alfonso tried hard to get his own word into the general discussion, without 
succeeding. So far Annetta
had  only  Macario’s  recommendation  on  which  to  base  her  acceptance  of  
him  as  a  literary  man.  He  had
been unable to give any proof of it.

Just  when  he  was  on  the  point  of  saying  goodbye,  Francesca  appeared. 
 She  was  pale  but  calm.  She
shook Alfonso’s hand effusively and asked him for news of his home. With a 
smile, which seemed sad to
Alfonso,  she  alluded  to  the  letter  she  had  written  to  Signora  
Carolina.  So  she  knew  about  Maller’s
mediation.

Annetta spoke to her with the formal lei  and Alfonso tried to remember whether 
he had not heard her
treated with greater familiarity before.

On the stairs, at a question from Prarchi about what reason could have made 
Signorina Francesca want
to leave the Maller home, Macario replied “Women!” with great contempt.


XI

ROM  THEN  ON  Alfonso  visited  Annetta  regularly  every  Wednesday.  Macario 
 had  warned  him  that  one
Wednesday  or  another  he  might  find  Annetta  with  her  opinions  and  
tastes  quite  changed  and
literature  abandoned,  which  would  also  mean  the  end  of  these  
meetings.  Alfonso  would  go  each  time  to

Annetta’s house, fearing to find that Macario’s predictions had come true.

He set great store by these meetings, both for the pleasure of seeing Annetta 
and for the satisfaction of
his own vanity. It was known in the office that he frequented the managing 
director’s house, and he was
treated with greater respect by his superiors. Cellani’s behaviour was modified 
too. He could not become
kinder, but he became more familiar.

Annetta did not seem at all close to fulfilling Macario’s prophecy and was more 
and more immersed in
her  new  studies.  Every  week  she  had  a  story  to  tell  of  some  
artistic  thought,  some  book  she  had  read
which,  with  a  beginner’s  exaggeration,  she  declared  to  be  the  most  
important  of  its  kind  or  criticized
capriciously,  all  in  her  usual  competent  tone,  often  with  sharp  or  
funny  comments  whose  only  defects
were that they did not always suit the subject.

One evening came an unusual guest, Cellani. It was probably the first time he 
had ever appeared in that
company, for Annetta had to introduce Spalati to him. He did not seem ill at 
ease, as far as Alfonso could
judge.  He  listened  with  great  attention  but  did  not  say  a  word.  
Once  his  opinion  was  asked  during  a
discussion,  and  he  refused  to  give  it,  smiling  and  asserting  that  he 
 had  none.  He  seemed  to  be  on  very
friendly  terms  with  Annetta.  That  evening  she  devoted  herself  to  him  
with  an  attention  that  showed
affectionate respect.

Prarchi appeared less often at these evenings, because he was very busy. Fumigi 
was rarely absent, but
the  most  assiduous  was  Spalati.  As  Macario  had  said,  Spalati  was  
above  all  else  a  handsome  man,  a
Herculean figure beside whom Alfonso, tall and quite well-proportioned as he 
was, seemed of no account.
Alfonso did not like him. He criticized Spalati for pedantry but hated him out 
of jealousy. For this he had
some  reason.  Spalati  was  the  furthest  advanced  in  Annetta’s  
confidence.  For  nearly  a  year  he  had  been
giving her lessons in Italian literature and had reached the intimacy of a 
teacher without boring her with
too  much  hard  work.  He  let  her  talk,  listened,  approved  or  modified, 
 content  to  be  treated  as  an  equal.
Alfonso,  feeling  inferior  with  his  difficulty  in  speaking  out  loud,  
would  undergo  violent  fits  of  jealousy,
storms  in  tea  cups.  Outwardly  he  showed  nothing  because  of  his  
habitual  reserve  in  expressing  his
feelings, a reserve which became greater as the feelings grew.

One  evening  he  went  off  early,  saying  he  was  unwell.  He  wanted  to  
show  his  ill-humour  and  was
exasperated   that   no   one   realized   it,   all   believing   in   his   
illness.   He   wandered   round   the   streets,
discontented with the others and with himself. Being in the habit of talking to 
himself when agitated, he
soon  realized  how  ridiculous  his  ill-humour  was.  Even  in  the  most  
abstract  daydreams  a  word  clearly
pronounced can recall one to reality. He had reached the point of desiring, of 
loving, of being jealous of
Annetta;  she  on  the  other  hand  scarcely  knew  the  sound  of  his  
voice.  Whom  could  he  blame?  What  had
offended  him  more  than  anything  else  was  her  farewell  handshake,  
given  so  coldly,  with  eyes  turned  to
Spalati,  who  went  on  talking!  Would  he  have  preferred  her  to  brood  
on  what  had  caused  the  sudden
illness  which  he  had  used  as  an  excuse?  Nothing  could  be  guessed  
about  an  illness,  after  all,  when
nothing had been said beforehand to explain it. Spalati, if that had happened 
to him, would have received
nothing but good wishes for his health.

Looking  into  himself  he  thought  how  petty  and  tiresome  he  was  with  
his  disproportionate  desires.  He
had actually dreamt of Annetta loving him!

He  wanted  to  drop  the  whole  game.  It  was  the  only  way  still  open  
to  him.  He  would  pay  no  more  of
these  visits.  They  were  a  waste,  first  of  the  time  he  spent  at  the 
 Mallers,  then  of  the  time  afterwards,
because  of  the  agitation  into  which  those  visits  threw  him.  They  
were  embittering.  He  had  begun  a
struggle in which he was bound to succumb, he who was incapable of talking to 
please but only talked to
make  himself  understood;  he  was  bound  to  succumb  also  because  of  his 
 own  position  in  life,  which  was
unlikely  to  attract  such  an  ambitious  woman  as  this.  With  some  
excuse  or  other,  in  making  which  he
would try not to sound too incredible, he would avoid ever setting foot in the 
Maller home again. It was
those  visits  which  had  made  him  deviate  from  his  determination  to  
work  continuously:  without  his
realizing it the ambition born in him shortly before was changing into vanity, 
a desire to be thought more
than he was.

He felt he had already taken up again the serious intentions he had had when he 
had been an assiduous
frequenter  of  the  public  library.  But  his  thoughts  kept  on  going  
back  to  the  house  from  which  he  had
come, imagining scenes in which he was implored to return.

He  returned  without  being  asked,  simply  because  on  Wednesday  morning  
Macario  had  called  out  in
passing: “Till this evening, then.”

The week had seemed very long, an interval of time full of incident—though 
actually nothing had really
happened.  He  kept  thinking  that  he  had  already  carried  out  his  
intention  and  imagined  a  thousand
consequences  resulting  from  his  energetic  action.  He  was  free  to  turn 
 back,  or  rather  to  stay  where  he
was, which pleased him. That week reminded him of his adventure with Maria, but 
this time it was only
chance that prevented him taking some ill-considered step which would have 
broken off his relations with
Annetta. If he had broken them, what would he be? Just a humble little clerk at 
Mallers about whose ill-
humour no one would bother.


He  presented  himself  at  Annetta’s  half-an-hour  before  the  usual  time,  
and  was  rewarded  for  his
resolution because for the first time he found her alone. Everyone had sent 
excuses except Macario, who
was still expected. Annetta said that she supposed they did not want to 
renounce some public celebration
on that day, and showed Alfonso her gratitude by saying to him sweetly that he 
was wrong to come and
shut himself up in a dreary room.

“Dreary? No, not at all!” assured Alfonso, looking at her ardently.

If she had never known she was beautiful, Alfonso’s glance would have been 
enough to tell her so. He
confessed frankly that it was the first time he had heard of any public 
celebration that day.

“Do you lead such a solitary life, then?” asked Annetta in surprise.

They were sitting on a sofa next to the window, the brightest lit place in the 
room. Through the heavy
curtains the colours of sunset entered mutedly.

In  the  street  parallel  to  Via  dei  Forni  the  town  band  was  passing.  
Nothing  could  be  heard  but  the
accompaniment and the rumble of a big drum. They listened in silence.

“I  wonder  what  they’re  playing?”  asked  Annetta,  and  flung  open  the  
window.  The  breeze  swelled  the
curtains,  and  the  clear  ring  of  a  trumpet  brought  the  tune  which  
had  been  lacking.  For  an  instant  they
also heard the murmur of the crowd behind the band. Laughing, Annetta raised 
her face to Alfonso, who
was still leaning on the window-sill.

“I wonder if our serious friends are among those people too?”

From  the  light  side,  where  she  was  standing,  she  could  not  make  out 
 Alfonso  in  the  half-darkness
admiring her without restraint.

Her  half-mourning,  her  grey  had  vanished  too.  She  was  dressed  in  
soft  white  wool  with  a  black  cord
around  the  waist.  Annetta’s  figure  in  spite  of  its  curves  was  chaste 
 and  virginal,  with  a  straight  back
hollowed towards the neck, and a white face which appeared clever and alert.

She told him to come to the window too and breathe the breeze which had 
replaced the strong bora of
the week before.

The avenue was almost deserted; only on the corner was a group looking towards 
the next street.
“It almost makes me want to go down, too,” said Annetta.

Alfonso  was  intent  on  sensing  the  contact  of  his  arm  with  Annetta’s, 
 stirring  his  desire.  He  risked  a
movement to increase the pressure, and the blood rushed to his head from his 
own ardour and not from
contact with Annetta’s arm, which was as if it belonged to a lifeless body.

Annetta had probably not noticed his daring. At first they were both a little 
embarrassed, because they
had been too seldom alone together to find with ease a subject that could 
interest them both equally. But
when the subject was found, Alfonso’s voice echoed calmly and sonorously, for 
the first time in that room,
and for the first time Annetta heard complete phrases from him. If he did not 
know how to converse with
numerous people, Alfonso at least knew how to talk alone with one.

Smiling, Annetta asked him: “What about your homesickness? I’ve heard so much 
about it!”
“It has vanished” replied Alfonso.

His voice, to his surprise, was firm, calm. But that first phrase still 
remained truncated because he had
wanted to pay a compliment and say that it did not exist at that precise 
moment. With all his ease he had
not enough to make a risky remark—though he might possibly have got away with 
one.

One of Annetta’s affectations since she had taken to literature was to make a 
show of finding everything
interesting and wanting to know its reasons. She asked him to explain what 
homesickness was.

“It’s difficult,” began Alfonso, “but I think I can explain partly.”

He described first of all how it was a physical illness, because the lungs 
suffered from change of air, the
stomach  from  change  of  food,  the  feet  from  change  to  pavements.  What 
 he  did  not  attempt  to  describe
was the intensity of his longing to see again places he had left behind, a 
blank wall, a tortuous lane with a
gutter in the middle of it, even an uncomfortable room which dripped in bad 
weather; without mentioning
his loathing of the building in which he actually lived, he described his 
reaction to the bank, the big wide
street, even the sea.

“And as for people … it’s the same there too.”
“Did you hate me so much”

“Hate you? No! But I felt I would like to be far away from you, far away at 
home, so as to be there, and
not here.”

Fearing  that  what  he  described  with  such  sincerity  did  not  seem  
sufficiently  in  the  past  he  added
explanations. He hated all the people whom he felt obliged to treat with 
respect; he liked freedom, and he
wanted to treat those who were not his equals as if they were.

Ah, how lovely it was to talk to Annetta as an equal! How sweet to confide in 
her as freely as if he were
talking to himself! This sweetness flowed into his speech which, until then had 
been tongued-tied, careful
and literary.

Annetta listened in surprise. So this young man could talk as well as study, 
could he?

She  explained  to  him  that  when  one  wants  something  in  life,  one  
must  know  how  to  win  it.  Alfonso
recognized this as a dominating idea of Macario’s.

“It’s  not  difficult  to  win  my  friendship.  This  is  the  first  time  
you’ve  talked  to  me.  You  may  not  have
noticed it, but you’re nearly always dumb. I felt, though, that it was not up 
to me to make you talk.”

Annetta  laughed,  thereby  taking  from  her  words  anything  that  might  
have  been  offensive.  Alfonso
himself also laughed, finding rather comic this idea of someone waiting to be 
made to talk.

It  was  those  first  thoughts  that  gave  Annetta  the  idea  of  their  
writing  a  novel  together.  A  character
revealing itself so ingeniously seemed to her worth describing. She told him 
simply of the first idea which


had suddenly come to her, and which was certainly better than any later 
modifications.

“Once  upon  a  time  a  young  man  comes  from  country  to  town  with  some 
 very  odd  ideas  about  city
customs.  He’s  worried  at  finding  them  different  from  what  he  had  
imagined.  Then  we’ll  put  in  a  love
affair. Have you ever been in love?”

“I …” and his heart beat more strongly, from fear.
He had been on the point of making a declaration.

Annetta  called  Santo  to  light  the  gas,  and  Alfonso  was  blinded  by  
the  light  and  made  to  realize  how
false the step was he had been about to take. Annetta was just the same; she 
was giving sharp orders to
Santo who, surprisingly, carried them out in silence.

She made Alfonso sit down at the table.

“Now we need pen and ink … but I prefer to leave first ideas to memory. We’ll 
put black on white later.
Now how would you develop this novel?”

“We must have a good think.”

“Is it so difficult? We’ll describe your life,” and here she was still at her 
first idea. “Of course instead of
a clerk we’ll make you rich and noble, or rather just noble. The riches we’ll 
keep for the end of the book.”

With one light jump she had abandoned her first idea altogether.
“We must allow time for the imagination to work.”

“Ah yes!” said Annetta with the surprise of a young pupil reminded of a 
forgotten maxim. “D’you know
what we’ll do? Each of us on our own, quite independently of the other, will 
put our own ideas on paper;
then we’ll compare them and come to an agreement.”

Alfonso  liked  this  suggestion  immediately  and  said  so  with  ingenuous  
expressions  of  joy  that  made
Annetta smile with pleasure. Some good ideas for the novel were occurring to 
him, and he imagined what
it would be like fitting them to Annetta’s. He was thinking only of minor 
details, not of the whole. About
print  and  public  he  did  not  worry  at  all.  For  the  moment  his  only  
aim  was  to  cut  a  good  figure  with
Annetta.

They  spoke  of  the  writing  they  had  done  till  then.  Annetta  described 
 a  novel  she  said  she  had  written
about  a  woman  married  to  a  man  unworthy  of  her.  In  time  her  
artist’s  soul  affected  her  husband’s  and
changed him, and eventually the two really understood each other and lived 
together in perfect happiness
for many a year.

Alfonso  did  not  much  like  this  theme,  but  Annetta  stressed  that  she  
could  not  describe  all  she  had
written;  for  instance,  in  one  place  she  had  a  careful  description  of 
 a  landscape,  in  another  of  a  house—
Alfonso ingenuously began admiring what did not exist.

Alfonso described his work on morals. As he spoke of it, he felt he had written 
it all, and following an
opposite  system  to  Annetta’s  began  describing  what  he  had  not  done.  
He  mentioned  the  kernel  of  his
work, the negation of morality as everyone understood it, founded on religious 
law or individual good.

“If in a society founded on our moral ideas,” said Alfonso, “there happened to 
be a person with enough
energy to put himself above all these, he would be better off than anyone else, 
as he would of course have
the  superlative  intelligence  needed  to  act  astutely  and  ably  in  the  
abnormal  circumstances  in  which  he
would soon find himself.”

Annetta  looked  at  him,  surprised  at  the  ardour  with  which  such  an  
axiom  was  described  by  a  voice
which till a short time ago she had heard only in a timid and broken stutter. 
Then, less wordily and  less
energetically,  he  also  spoke  of  a  new  foundation  he  wanted  to  give  
morality.  The  explanation  of  the  first
part of his work had made a striking impression, and he could not hope to 
obtain an equal effect with this
other part, which dealt not with destroying, but with creating laws, a very 
different and boring matter.

Such was Alfonso’s delight at finding himself linked in some way to Annetta 
that he thought of hurrying
home  and  jotting  down  the  whole  subject  of  the  novel,  even  arranging 
 the  chapters.  How  surprised  he
was to have become Annetta’s collaborator all of a sudden, and when he thought 
of the feelings for him
which  he  had  attributed  to  her  the  preceding  week,  it  all  seemed  
quite  incredible.  If  he  had  run  across
Macario  just  then,  he  would  have  flung  his  arms  round  his  neck  to  
thank  him  for  the  great  happiness
which  he  owed  him,  and  with  the  expansiveness  due  to  happiness  would 
 have  told  him  of  Annetta’s
suggestion and of the value he attached to it.

But  a  part  of  his  enthusiasm  was  cooled  that  same  evening.  He  set  
the  plot  out  as  succinctly  as
possible:  “An  impoverished  young  noble  comes  to  seek  his  fortune  in  
the  city  …  persecuted  by  his  boss
and  his  companions  …  loved  by  them  because  an  intelligent  action  by  
him  saves  the  company  from
serious loss … marries the boss’s daughter.” The plot was not very original in 
itself, but what he disliked
most about it was the end, which had not actually been suggested by Annetta 
though it naturally derived
from the principles she had set out. To Annetta that marriage might seem like a 
proposal and alarm her,
make her suspect him of aims similar to their hero’s. He also realized, when he 
had pen in hand, that he
did not know what Annetta really wanted. They had both been content with 
half-hints: he because, in his
happiness, he had not remembered the insignificant matter of the plot; Annetta 
perhaps because she was
such a novice that she did not realize all that was needed to write a novel.

He turned to Macario and asked him to tell Annetta his doubts. Macario had free 
access to the Maller
home and could talk to her before Wednesday.

But  Macario  seemed  to  have  little  wish  to  do  this.  He  did  not  hide 
 his  surprise  at  hearing  that  they
intended to write a novel in collaboration. Alfonso was now subdued, realizing 
it was not dignified to show
too much joy and thinking that he had even succeeded in seeming very cold. But 
Macario looked at him
with a nasty ironic little smile and said: “Congratulations!”

Alfonso accompanied Macario to his office. Macario seemed very distracted, and 
when Alfonso told him


with  a  serious  air  that  he  felt  honoured  by  Annetta’s  suggestion  and 
 wanted  to  return  her  trust  by
working  hard  and  carefully,  Macario  covered  his  mouth  with  a  hand  as 
 if  to  hide  a  yawn.  Alfonso  was  a
good  enough  observer  not  to  believe  in  that  yawn;  under  the  hand  he 
 had  seen  a  mouth  open  but  inert,
not  contracted  by  any  instinctive  movement.  Macario  was  jealous!  Both  
the  distraction  as  well  as  the
yawn were affected, intending to hide anger or pain.

Alfonso went on talking with the same warmth, because whenever he noticed that 
somebody was trying
to conceal something from him, his first instinct was to pretend he had not 
noticed it.

“Do please tell Signorina Annetta that I’m ready to begin at once, but need to 
know a little more about
what I’m to do.”

“All right,” said Macario, who seemed to Alfonso a little paler than usual, 
“when I happen to see her, I’ll
tell her.”

He  regretted  speaking  to  Macario  and  was  sure  he  could  no  longer  
count  on  the  other’s  friendship.
Perhaps Macario did not love Annetta, that Alfonso could not know, but was 
jealous of him only because
he  had  a  jealous  nature.  Alfonso  had  not  understood  this  nature  
before  because  it  was  the  first  time
Macario  could  have  had  any  reason  for  jealousy.  Macario’s  own  
cleverness  and  social  position  must
always have made him feel superior, and it was probably just because he enjoyed 
feeling that superiority
and  making  it  felt  that  he  had  sought  out  Alfonso’s  company.  
Probably  Macario  had  taken  him  to  the
Mallers supposing him too timid ever to gain Annetta’s friendship.

So he had confided in an enemy whom he had already given a chance to harm him, 
because it was likely
that Annetta did not want their plan to be known. However much Alfonso wanted 
to appear cold, he must
have shown his joy, and Macario was capable of describing it to Annetta with 
exaggeration. He saw him
repeating  some  phrase  of  his,  raising  that  hand  which  was  sometimes  
more  malicious  than  his  tongue,
and      he  imagined  that  would  be  enough  to  lose  him  Annetta’s  
friendship,  won  with  so  much  effort.  He
recalled the treatment of that clerk who had dared to pay court to Annetta.

That week had been disagreeable because the fear of being reproached with 
tactlessness took away the
joy  of  Annetta’s  sudden  friendship.  He  waited  in  vain  from  day  to  
day  for  some  communication  from
Macario in reply to the request which he had made. The man did not even bother 
to hide his ill-will and
seemed to be avoiding him, because Alfonso did not manage to set eyes on him 
for the whole week.

He  went  to  Annetta’s  anxious  to  learn  how  Macario  had  behaved;  he  
would  know  from  the  way  she
greeted him.

The  whole  company  was  gathered  in  the  living-room.  Fumigi,  Spalati,  
Prarchi,  and  Macario;  even
Maller stayed for half-an-hour. Macario greeted Alfonso with a smile that was 
not malicious, and Annetta
shook  his  hand  warmly.  Annetta’s  friendship  had  not  diminished  since  
the  Wednesday  before.  Alfonso
suddenly  felt  other  ideas  open  out,  but  could  not  even  enjoy  
sloughing  off  his  worries  because  he  was
disturbed by Maller’s presence, in spite of the latter’s friendly handshake.

Francesca was sitting apart on the sofa, holding some embroidery. Alfonso 
greeted her and went up to
her,  and  she  rose  to  her  feet  to  give  more  warmth  to  her  words  
which  were  as  always  rather  dry  and
brusque.  Signorina  Francesca  was  never  embarrassed.  He  had  heard  her  
talk  in  friendly,  happy  or
annoyed tones, but always briefly and decisively like someone not to be imposed 
on. Maller was sitting on
Annetta’s right, Spalati on her left. The latter always sat next to Annetta and 
seemed to set great store by
it.

Alfonso,  although  more  disturbed  by  Maller’s  presence  than  were  the  
others,  noticed  how  their
behaviour changed because of it.

At  that  period,  whenever  literature  was  mentioned,  there  was  always  a 
 discussion  about  realism  and
romanticism; this was a cosy literary argument in which all of them could play 
a part.

Maller  was  a  partisan  of  ‘realism’,  but,  as  he  always  wanted  to  
seem  more  witty  than  learned,  he
confessed  that  he  liked  the  realists  all  the  more  because  they  were  
not  moralists.  He  also  pretended  to
despise them because he considered their methods made it easy for them to 
achieve popularity.

Spalati, whose ideas as far as Alfonso knew were not likely to conform to 
Maller’s, immediately found a
point of view from which he could agree.

“Yes, you who read only for pleasure are right to enjoy them.” Prarchi tried to 
go too far. He wanted to
prove to Maller, who denied it, that the pleasure he found in reading those 
immoral authors derived from
an unconscious artistic sense.

“You  think  you  love  them  for  the  reason  you  say,  but  without  your  
realizing  it,  surely  it’s  the  books’
artistic merits that you enjoy?”

“Maybe,” said Maller, who did not seem to perceive that these two literary men 
were doing their best to
flatter him. “I don’t understand, though, why some pages please me more than 
others. They’re the most
artistic, perhaps.”

If he had perceived they were trying to flatter him, he was deriding the 
flatterers. When Maller began
making  his  literary  confessions,  Annetta  said  to  Alfonso  in  a  loud  
voice:  “Just  listen  carefully  and  you’ll
hear some nonsense.”

Alfonso  was  so  flustered  by  this  phrase,  which  came  as  an  unexpected 
 gift  to  him  in  that  general
discussion, that he actually listened less.

Very soon Maller got up and bowed goodbye to everyone. He moved towards 
Francesca, followed by an
attentive look from Alfonso. Francesca did not seem to notice his approach but, 
when he was near, raised
her  eyes  from  her  work  without  pretending  to  affect  surprise,  looked  
at  him  calmly  and  held  out  a  little
hand which he, as calmly, took in his.

“Why do you ruin your eyesight by such work?”


She withdrew her hand, which he still wanted to hold: “It does me no harm.”

As Maller passed once more before the table on his way out, the men rose to 
their feet in farewell. The
one person who had neither tried to rise nor changed her bearing at his 
departure was Annetta.

Only when saying goodbye did Annetta ask Alfonso in a whisper how far he had 
got with the novel.
“I’ve not been able to do anything because the trouble is I don’t yet know what 
to do.”

After reflecting for an instant, Annetta said in a low voice: “Come tomorrow at 
seven, will you?”
“Of course!” and he felt his heart leap.

In such low voices are lovers’ appointments made.


XII

LFONSO WAS MET by Santo on the stairs. “I was waiting for you,” the man said, 
smiling at him in a most
friendly way.

He  treated  Alfonso  respectfully,  letting  him  pass  through  doors  first  
and  bowing  deeply  after  opening
the library door for him. At the bank also he took every opportunity to show 
deference.

In the library were Annetta and Francesca, the latter at her eternal 
embroidery, the former writing.
“I was doing the first draft,” Annetta said to him. “Come on, help me because I 
can’t do it alone.”
She put some paper in front of him, elegant little pieces of writing-paper, and 
a pen.

“The space is a bit awkward for you, but there’s room enough when two people 
want to work as much
as we do.”

The  table  was  too  low  and  there  was  no  room  on  it  because  she  had 
 not  bothered  to  clear  some
newspapers. Francesca remedied Annetta’s forgetfulness.

“I see that without my help you’ll never get down to work.”

She took the bundle of newspapers and threw them in a corner.

The relations between the two women seemed improved. Francesca no longer looked 
so ill, though she
was still pale; but her lips were less white, and Annetta was not avoiding 
speaking to her.

“Take care not to try and put your ideas into the novel too, as a novel might 
conceivably be written by
two people, but not by three.”

Annetta and Francesca had an urge to address each other often, like two people 
reminding themselves
all the time that they were no longer on bad terms.

“A preliminary word or two,” said Annetta to Alfonso with some gravity. “I’d 
like to explain the method
which I consider should be followed in our work so as to avoid obvious signs of 
two minds or intentions.
Of  course  we  must  first  see  that  our  two  intentions  differ  as  
little  as  possible.  That  will  be  the  most
difficult thing, but with a few concessions on both sides I think we can 
achieve it. As to our method, we’ll
just have to divide the work.”

With  a  nervous  hand  she  traced  some  circles  on  the  paper  in  front  
of  her  to  make  her  idea  of  this
division clear. But she had some hesitation, so she asserted, in explaining how 
the division should actually
work in practice, since she feared he might find her allotting him too inferior 
a part.

“Don’t hesitate to tell me,” said Alfonso with a smile and a blush, “I want to 
do my part, but nothing can
make me forget what an honour it is to collaborate with you.”

The compliment was not badly put. Annetta thanked him.

“Well, you have good ideas, that we know, so we’ll allot you the part of 
suggesting and developing them.
As  I  happen  to  move  round  town  more,  I’ll  do  the  dialogue  and  
descriptions.  You  live  among  books  the
whole time.”

This  observation  was  to  console  him  for  having  suggested  that  he  
never  moved  around  town.  Alfonso,
much flattered, accepted the suggestion. Every chapter would be drafted by him 
first and then be re-done
by Annetta.

“I  hope  I’ll  at  least  be  able  to  recognize  your  good  ideas  and  
leave  them  intact.”  She  could  not  have
been  more  modest.  “Well,  that’s  all  settled!”  and  she  gave  a  sigh  
of  satisfaction  as  if,  with  that  settled,
part of the novel was already finished.

“Now let’s go on to settle the plot.”

Here  too  some  principles  were  needed.  They  must  remember,  warned  
Annetta,  that  they  wanted  a
success.  They  would  be  publishing  under  a  pseudonym,  but  there  would  
be  little  pleasure  in  such  a
publication unless it was successful. They were not out for future glory or 
thinking at all of posterity. But
they did want an immediate success.

“I  know  the  way  to  get  it.  It’s  not  so  difficult,  you  know!  For  
some  years  I’ve  been  noticing  what
succeeds  best  with  theatre-goers  or  readers,  and  I  always  find  the  
same  recipe  of  taming  a  shrew.  It
doesn’t matter much if the shrew is male or female, but he or she must be tamed 
by the force of love.”

Alfonso  too  admitted  that  he  had  sometimes  found  his  interest  aroused 
 by  such  productions,  though
never enough to lessen his contempt for book and author. But this was not the 
moment to emphasize this
contempt. Annetta had never attracted him so much. Bent over her writing, her 
smooth brown hair simply
dressed, pen in delicate hand, he saw her for the first time wholly oblivious 
to her beauty, not bothering
whether she was pleased or not, with pursed lips and frowning brow, her noble 
head nobly poised. Alfonso
agreed  to  everything.  At  top  speed  she  jotted  down  the  contents  of  
the  first  ten  chapters,  then  in  a  few
words  a  general  idea  of  the  rest.  He  had  not  noticed  one  original  
attitude  or  concept,  but  the  slightest
doubt would have seemed an offence to Annetta’s first flight of enthusiasm. 
Anyway, it seemed premature
to give opinions; the plot could improve in execution.

When  alone  with  the  work  he  had  taken  on,  he  had  a  stronger  sense  
than  ever  of  its  vulgarity.  The
shrew this time was feminine. Annetta had sketched out a plot about a young 
lady of rank who was jilted
by   a duke and, on the rebound, agreed to marry a rich industrialist. She did 
not love him and treated him
with contempt. The industrialist, who was an excellent man, with muscles as 
strong as his character was
gentle, eventually triumphed over his wife’s aversion and the two of them lived 
happily together for many
a long year. Annetta’s skeleton plot was marked with ‘scenes’ at what she 
thought effective points, which
made it all the more like the plot for a comedy, a very everyday comedy.

But the first chapter, though it plunged right into the subject, because 
Annetta said that long openings


bored the public, was so vaguely sketched that from it Alfonso could make up a 
chapter to his own taste.
‘Clara,  a  young  countess,  learns  that  the  duke  is  marrying  a  
shopkeeper’s  daughter;  her  despair.’  The

precedents of this situation needed describing, and this became something in 
which Alfonso could have a
free   hand.   In   a   few   words   he   described   the   state   of   mind  
 of   the   girl’s   mother   on   receiving   the
announcement  of  the  duke’s  marriage;  she  tells  her  daughter,  not  
knowing  the  storm  this  news  would
arouse  in  the  heart  of  the  poor  girl,  who  takes  the  blow  with  
dignity  and  only  gives  vent  to  her  feelings
when alone again in her room. There she not only gives vent to them but muses 
sorrowfully over the past,
her  early  childhood  with  the  duke,  who  was  a  cousin,  a  wild  lad  
who  had  often  hit  her  yet  was  very
lovable.  Down  went  what  Alfonso  thought  a  successful  description,  
sweet  as  an  idyll.  Various  touches
showed that the author was someone with grave worries who had been unable to 
give all his attention to
the account and so let his pen run on, putting it back on its path every now 
and again and not bothering
much  if  it  soon  wandered  again.  He  knew  that  the  whole  novel  could  
not  go  like  that,  but  anyway  the
chapter was done.

He handed it over to Annetta on the next Wednesday, when Annetta told the whole 
company about the
work  she  and  Alfonso  had  embarked  upon.  She  then  explained  to  
Spalati  and  Prarchi  why  she  had  not
chosen  them  instead  of  Alfonso.  She  said  that  she  had  not  chosen  
the  first  because  people  are  shy  of
working  with  their  own  teachers;  Prarchi  on  the  other  hand  she  had  
excluded  because  he  was  too
determinedly ‘realist’. Prarchi asserted that he was less of a ‘realist’ than 
he had said himself, and would
sacrifice  any  exaggerated  opinions  for  this  chance.  He  spoke  
seriously,  as  if  still  in  time  to  persuade
Annetta to go back on her resolution. Then he began to laugh.

“For this chance I’d have collaborated on a really romantic romance.”
Alfonso took this quip as a warning to himself.

Fumigi  walked  with  Alfonso  for  part  of  the  way  home,  asked  shyly  
about  their  method  of  work  and
seemed  very  interested  in  the  novel’s  plot,  but  when,  with  an  
affectation  of  indifference  and  looking
elsewhere,  he  asked  how  many  times  they  met  a  week,  Alfonso  felt  
the  same  surprise  as  he  had  at
Macario’s yawn.

“Are they all in love with Annetta, then?”

He went to visit Annetta next evening as they had agreed. He found her writing 
in the library. On seeing
him she gave a movement of pleased impatience, then pushed aside the manuscript 
and started to talk of
other  things,  of  the  wonderfully  mild  weather  for  that  time  of  year. 
 Alfonso,  who  knew  no  motive  for
hesitation,  asked  her  how  she  had  liked  his  chapter,  with  a  smile  
asking  for  clemency.  It  was  rather
unpromising that she had not mentioned the subject first.

“I don’t like it!” Annetta said to him, giving him a friendly look to attenuate 
the crude phrase: “It’s very
fine, of course, I recognize its merits, but it’s dull.”

She told him that she had begun correcting it but had not succeeded, and that 
he would definitely have
to  re-write  it,  because  she  had  to  confess  that  even  now  she  did  
not  know  just  what  was  lacking  in  that
chapter.

“It’s all of a piece!”

At  this  critic’s  expression  she  became  enthusiastic  because  she  knew  
that  things  ‘all  of  a  piece’  are
praiseworthy; and Alfonso’s heart beat lighter.

“But it’s dull, very dull. Who d’you expect to read with any pleasure such a 
string of thoughts with no
interruption or ornamentation? And then you do too little narrating; you’re 
always describing, even when
you think you’re narrating. After an opening like that, how are we to go on? 
There are a thousand words
of description to one of narrative. The other way round would have been better. 
It’s more important to lay
down  the  main  theme,  Clara’s  first  reactions  on  her  marriage  to  that 
 industrialist  and  his  longstanding
love for her, rather than describe some drawing-room which the reader is never 
going to see again, and
give all those details about Clara’s childhood.”

She read her own version aloud to him. A few of Alfonso’s words and phrases 
were kept, obviously from
kindness, but they were so unimportant that he could not feel grateful; the 
very parts that meant most to
him had been treated most summarily.

On  finishing  her  reading  Annetta  looked  at  him  expecting  enthusiastic  
approval;  but  Alfonso  with  a
great effort just managed to mutter some words of praise which were still too 
cold. He made things worse
because  he  was  unable  to  hide  his  disappointment  at  having  worked  so 
 hard  and  uselessly—finding  no
immediate  way  of  expressing  disappointment  without  offending  Annetta,  
when  he  thought  he  had  found
such a way, he used it without stopping to consider its outcome. Without 
speaking of his own work he said
that Annetta’s would be more popular, but went on to criticize her theories. It 
was quite true, he said, that
they  would  have  a  success  by  using  those  theories  but  denied  that  
it  was  worthwhile  sacrificing  every
higher artistic aim for a hunger for ephemeral success.

“Excuse  me!”  interrupted  Francesca,  who  had  been  silent  till  then  and 
 had  not  seemed  to  follow  the
conversation,  “By  the  look  on  your  face  I’d  have  said  you  enjoyed  
Annetta’s  work.  So  it  cannot  be  as
unartistic as you say.”

Alfonso  thought  that  Francesca  accompanied  her  phrase  with  a  glance  
which  might  have  been  an
invitation for him to agree, and this was such a surprise that for a time he 
could not take his eyes off her.
Had Francesca also collaborated on that chapter she was defending? Now it was 
obvious that he had to
admire it, and he adapted himself with the best grace he could. He said that he 
had liked the chapter but
was only against the theory.

Actually the chapter had seemed to him ugly, bare and declamatory, and he was 
humiliated to have to
make that explicit declaration by which he abdicated the right of giving his 
own opinion. He was amazed


to see that Annetta had no doubts about the sincerity of his declaration. Then 
it was settled, she said, that
this chapter was to stay just as she had rewritten it, and they would agree 
about the other chapters in the
same way.

In  fact  about  the  second  and  third  chapters  they  did  agree  in  the  
same  way  but  more  easily.  Alfonso
wrote  them  out  trying  to  imitate  Annetta,  and  Annetta  rewrote  them  
without  bothering  much  about  the
first version.

This  situation  had  an  agreeable  side  for  Alfonso.  Having  won  her  
superiority  and  made  it  manifest,
having probably noticed how much it cost Alfonso to submit, Annetta tried to 
make up for this by showing
him more friendship, at times even a protectiveness, a kind of maternal 
affection. She derided him for his
weakness, described him as a little bear who lacked tact and who did not know 
how to pay a compliment;
one evening she said to the Wednesday group in his presence that there may be 
greater philosophers than
Alfonso, but none who had taken philosophy so seriously or lived in such 
conformity with its dictates. She
gave him, but only when they were alone together, the nickname of ‘frog’. A 
‘frog’ when he stuttered out
half a phrase and did not know how to complete it, a ‘frog’ when he said that 
literary success was worth
little because it was made by the ignorant; she even called him a ‘frog’ when 
he brought her his drafts all
ready to be thrown aside.

She would say the word to him with a sweet smile, looking at him with 
admiration as if he were some
eccentric creature to be studied but not read, while he stood rigid, talking 
little and clipping his words to
deserve  her  nickname  the  more.  She  always  stuck  firmly  to  her  first  
opinion  that  although  Alfonso  had
many more superior ideas at his disposal, he did not know how to connect them 
and form a good novel.
He was too heavy, too dull. Sooner or later he would make a fine name for 
himself by some excellent work
of philosophy, but not by novels, which were too light for him.

But the tedium of the work was considerable. In the second chapter there was a 
terrible scene between
Clara  and  her  husband  in  their  bedroom,  but  in  the  third,  and  by  
Annetta’s  express  wish,  husband  and
wife both realized they loved each other, although divided by immense pride. 
The whole of the rest of the
novel was to be about these two prides which had to be tamed, because such was 
the plot. But it did not
even  continue  about  these  two  prides,  for  Annetta  wanted  to  graft  
into  the  novel  a  thousand  other  little
tales  which  had  nothing  to  do  with  the  main  one.  A  former  fiancé,  
a  shopkeeper,  Clara’s  rival  the
nobleman’s  wife,  and  also  a  brother  of  Clara’s  and  a  sister  of  the  
industrialist  whom  she  eventually
married, were all brought in; so were various other characters who took part in 
some political comedy, an
election  put  in  to  swell  the  novella  up  to  a  full-scale  novel.  
Alfonso  proposed  omitting  all  this  useless
matter  and  leaving  the  two  prides  as  Annetta  wanted  them,  facing  
each  other  to  fight  it  out  between
them;  a  good  analysis  of  pride  could  still  be  made  of  that.  Annetta 
 found  this  suggestion  positively
comical. There was to be chapter after chapter of long talks and struggles 
between the two women, Clara
and the noble’s wife; every chapter was to be adorned by one or more glances of 
love between husband
and wife. They got no further.

For Alfonso this work began to take on an odd resemblance to his work in the 
bank. In the evening he
would sit down to it with a yawn, struggling against sleep, intent only on 
keeping closely to what Annetta
had  told  him  to  do,  glad  when  he  had  finished.  Sometimes  the  
boredom  of  the  work  was  such  that  he
ended by going to Annetta’s without having done anything. At the last moment 
when he had not worked,
resolving  to  send  her  his  excuses  next  day  and  renounce  seeing  her  
that  time  rather  than  have  to  write
such stuff. But he could not renounce seeing her, found some other excuse and 
went.

Annetta always greeted him kindly and never reproved him. She made him read 
what she had done and
then let him change the subject. She rather enjoyed hearing him talk. He was 
now only shy on purpose,
because he had realized that it was wise to preserve a certain shyness with 
Annetta. When about to leave
he  would  remember  Macario’s  warnings  and  Francesca’s  little  sign  and  
even  the  bearing  of  Spalati,
Annetta’s oldest friend, who, when he took liberties, did so always with an air 
as respectful as his words
were  free.  Spalati  was  clever  enough  only  to  lack  respect  for  her  
when  he  flattered  her.  In  this  way  his
flattery took on an aspect of frankness that made it seem sincere. He was quite 
capable of telling her that
she  used  too  many  adjectives,  like  Victor  Hugo.  Alfonso  understood  
his  method  and  his  bearing,  made
easier by his capacity to simulate the character attributed to him. By showing 
contempt for exterior forms
he  was  allowed  to  transgress  some  of  them,  but  it  was  not  such  
forms  that  Annetta  demanded.  The
important thing for her was to show admiration or enthusiasm at the proper 
time.

Their pleasantest evenings were when the novel was not mentioned at all, but 
Alfonso realized that in
the long run Annetta might be displeased by the slow progress of the work. He 
was also warned of this by
Francesca, who for a second time showed a wish to direct him in his relations 
with Annetta. One evening
she received him when Annetta was still in her room.

“Have  you  not  done  anything  today,  either?”  she  asked  him  with  a  
note  of  reproof.  “Take  care,  as
Annetta easily gets impatient.”

That evening he did happen to have something done. He understood the importance 
of the warning and
accepted it; from then on, and for some time, every evening he brought some 
proof of having worked on
or thought about the novel.

He was finding this more and more difficult. There was a lot to do at the bank. 
Now he had nearly all
Miceni’s  work  on  his  shoulders,  so  that  there  were  daily  bouts  of  
hard  work  with  which  he  and  Alchieri
could scarcely cope. He felt the need for long walks and for rest more strongly 
than ever.

The  first  time  since  Francesca’s  warning  that  he  happened  to  visit  
Annetta  without  bringing  a  single
page of writing Annetta greeted him with her usual sweet smile; but he, afraid 
she was hiding the anger
mentioned by Francesca and in no way reassured, expected to be dismissed 
suddenly and for ever. In his


fear he did not think one excuse enough but mentioned how busy he was, then 
said he’d had a headache
and even some worrying news from home about his mother’s health which had 
spoilt the calm he needed
for work. Annetta listened to him with a deeply sympathetic air, very moving to 
Alfonso. He hated having
to excuse himself like a little schoolboy when he longed to say something quite 
different, and this brought
tears to his eyes, which Annetta attributed to worry about his mother’s health.

That evening Annetta must have found Alfonso more agreeable than usual. After 
speaking of the many
reasons  which  had  prevented  him  working  at  the  novel,  he  had  gone  
on  to  tell  her  that  he  longed  to
dedicate  himself  to  it,  and  then  to  assert  that  his  favourite  
occupation  was  meditating  about  that
delightful  work.  For  the  first  time  his  flattery  was  not  forced,  for 
 it  was  a  moment  when  he  would  have
turned  forger  to  ensure  Annetta’s  friendship.  He  described  his  job  at 
 the  bank,  and,  not  daring  to
complain  to  Signor  Maller’s  daughter  of  banking  work  in  general,  he  
lamented  that  he  was  still  not
entrusted with the more intelligent and responsible work which he considered 
his due.

“Would you like me to talk to Papa?” asked Annetta, much touched. “Of course 
you have a right to more
difficult work.”

He had not foreseen this offer, which somewhat put him out. He protested that 
he did not want to take
advantage  of  Annetta’s  friendship  to  obtain  protection.  Anyway,  
influence  was  not  enough  to  break
through  the  bank’s  hierarchy—while  the  suggestion  of  it  partly  
destroyed  his  illusions  about  these
evenings with Annetta. She wanted to know what these illusions were.

“When I’m here,” replied Alfonso, “I just want to remember that I’m your 
friend, and a writer. For the
moment I’m nothing else.”

Annetta thanked him.

“So you do like coming here, do you?”

She had switched to a much lighter tone, which Alfonso did not notice at once, 
so busy was he assuring
her that he always enjoyed coming to her home.

Annetta had produced that phrase in good faith, thinking it very polite, but it 
produced many hours of
agitation  in  Alfonso.  Yes,  polite  it  certainly  was,  but  had  she  so  
soon  forgotten  seeing  him  cry  that  she
could  only  produce  that  conventional  phrase?  It  took  him  a  long  time 
 to  understand  why  the  phrase
seemed so offensive. Meanwhile he felt very discontented with himself, as if 
remorseful for some bad or
silly action. He had wept before her, and she had thought it her duty to say a 
kind word! There was such a
difference  between  the  importance  of  the  two  facts  that  he  was  
ashamed  of  having  shed  those  tears.  A
woman with any gleam of affection for him would have wept with him.

It was a fine evening with air cold but serene and with a clear sky with few 
stars. He stood in the street
for  a  long  time,  feeling  he  could  not  achieve  calm  inside  a  room.  
For  the  second  time  he  felt  an  urge  to
break  off  his  relations  with  Annetta,  again  because  of  unease  at  the 
 coldness  and  indifference  showing
through  her  great  appearance  of  friendship.  These  painful  surprises  
jolted  him  from  his  inert  living-by-
habit  rather  than  by  aim  or  idea;  then  he  analysed  that  aim,  
surprised  at  not  having  lived  more  in
conformity with it nor seen it under another light, at being as far from 
reaching it as he had seemed near
before.

Was his passion the kind that needed many a pang before being satisfied? Now, 
more even than at the
start of his relations with Annetta, he had a clear feeling that his love for 
her was increased by the riches
surrounding  her,  embellishing  a  pretty  face  as  a  setting  does  a  
diamond.  He  remembered  that  before
realizing Annetta’s grace and charm, he had been excited by knowing that she 
was Maller’s daughter, and
from that agitation and emotion had come the feeling he called love.

But what was the point of all this analysis? He had noticed a difference 
between his way of feeling and
that  of  the  people  around  him,  and  he  thought  this  consisted  in  the 
 fact  that  he  took  life  too  seriously.
That was his misfortune! Was it worth racking his brains to find a way out of a 
tangle which should work
out  naturally  by  itself?  If  Annetta  loved  him,  he  certainly  had  a  
lot  to  gain;  his  life  would  be  quite
changed; yes, if she loved him, he had nothing to lose.

He  wanted  to  be  calm,  but  such  were  not  thoughts  to  free  him  from  
either  doubts  or  agitation.  The
indecisive situations to which he was prone tended to save him from analysing 
his own instincts. Knowing
himself made him suffer.

The next day, on the Corso, he happened upon Macario going down to the sea. 
They had not seen each
other for some weeks, for which Macario was kind enough to blame Alfonso.

“Are you so busy with the novel,” he asked, “that you’re not to be seen about 
any more?”

It  was  the  first  time  Macario  had  even  mentioned  the  novel  to  him,  
and  his  friendly  jesting  tone  gave
Alfonso  a  pleasant  surprise.  He  was  again  the  good  friend  who  
enjoyed  instructing,  and  Alfonso  on  his
side did his best to put on once more his former submissive attitude; but in 
vain. He was no longer able to
hold back spontaneous comments completing or rectifying Macario’s ideas. 
Macario invited him for a sail,
and Alfonso had to refuse because it was nearly time for him to be at the 
office. They walked some way
along the mole together.

Macario greeted a lady who, though ponderous and hardly in her first youth, was 
still attractive.
“There’s  a  woman,”  he  said,  “whose  lover  one  can  easily  become,  they 
 say,  and  quite  fun  it  would  be

too.”  From  this  observation  he  went  on  to  discourse  about  seduction  
in  general.  “To  get  a  woman  who
wants  to  give  herself  may  not  seem  difficult,  but  it  can  tax  even  
an  astute  man’s  resources.  One  must
know when to move, because even a woman who wants it doesn’t want it all the 
time, and once one does
know  when,  then  one  should  pounce  immediately,  which  is  anything  but  
easy,  as  that  decision  requires
stronger  nerves  than  a  general  does  directing  a  battle.  Even  if  the  
attack’s  expected  and  bound  to  be
victorious, it gets no easier. With women who are indecisive and need to have 
one conviction given them


and  another  taken  away,  it’s  so  difficult  that  I’ve  never  gone  in  
for  them,  in  spite  of  my  considerable
experience.  I’m  convinced  though  that  there  too  it’s  more  a  question  
of  action  than  of  talk.  Talk
beforehand, a long time beforehand, but no speeches take a woman to the point 
of no return. With women
one   must act. A kiss for example, a kiss on a hand, a face, a neck, even a 
foot, whatever’s nearest. Good
talkers never have luck with women.”

This  speech  seemed  made  specially  for  Alfonso,  but  on  his  way  to  
the  office  he  laughed.  He  imagined
taking Macario’s advice seriously and acting  with Annetta. He saw her white 
hand raised threateningly to
slap.  Perhaps  Macario  had  hoped  Alfonso  would  follow  his  advice!  
Alfonso  suspected  him  capable  of
anything. All the better! The kind of trap that Macario had set became a 
warning.

Very  soon  he  had  occasion  to  think  over  Macario’s  advice  again.  One  
evening  Francesca  left  them
alone.  Annetta  was  writing  calmly  in  her  fine  minute  handwriting  with 
 its  decisive  strokes;  her  left  arm
was  stretched  out  on  the  desk,  against  which  her  bosom  was  leaning;  
her  hand  was  directly  under
Alfonso’s mouth. It was impossible not to think of the action advised by 
Macario, and Alfonso quivered as
he  realized  that  the  skin  on  the  end  of  his  chin  had  already  
touched  that  hand  and  that  it  was  not
withdrawn even so. He remembered Macario declaring that a man became ridiculous 
in a woman’s eyes
by   risking   less   than   she   desired.   The   decision   was   not   
consciously   taken   before,   with   an   almost
involuntary movement, his lips were on that hand. He felt the contact of 
velvety skin and remembered it
after; for the moment, he tried to put on the indifferent air of a child who 
hopes its own naughtiness will
be blamed on others. The lightning he feared did not come! He saw Annetta’s 
face change colour and the
pen pause on the paper. Perhaps she was undecided what attitude to take. Then 
the hand was withdrawn,
slowly,  with  a  natural  movement  as  if  she  needed  it  to  lean  her  
head  on.  The  silence  lasted  almost  a
minute, a century for Alfonso. Finally she spoke, and not of the kiss; she 
spoke with careless ease, looking
at him more than once in a smiling friendly manner.

He  was  saved!  More  than  saved,  happy!  The  declaration  was  made!  At  
least  she  would  now  realize
herself to be no longer with a clerk or a writer. From now on he could hope 
that she would in some way
guess when he suffered from a cold word or from jealousy. He tried to be 
modest, to consider Annetta’s
silence due only to gentle forbearance, but it had already made him happy. He 
had made a gigantic step
at the very start. That evening he had no doubts. He loved Annetta and wanted 
her for himself. That was
his easy way to riches, but of that he did not think at all at the time. A 
smile from Annetta was happiness!
Action had been demanded of him, and his action had been bold but not brutal; 
gentler, more respectful
than any word.

For  a  number  of  evenings  Francesca  was  present  at  their  meetings,  
which  did  not  displease  Alfonso.
Now he spoke with his eyes; the language of the eyes is like that of music; it 
makes nothing definite when
no word has been said, but when it has, says more and says it better than do 
words themselves. His looks
were  not  bold;  he  did  not  try  to  make  out  her  curves  by  an  
indiscreet  gaze  amid  her  soft  clothes,  or  by
squeezing  her  hand  or  stroking  it  to  get  a  thrill  from  the  contact. 
 That  declaration,  that  outburst  of
solitary desire had fortified his love, made him breathe pure air. He had been 
unable, though, to produce
any addition to that kiss in actual words.

One evening, when they were in the library, Francesca tiptoed off in the very 
middle of the sitting so as
not to disturb them. Her absence lasted a quarter of an hour, and when she 
returned, she found them just
where she had left them. Alfonso had quivered on her departure, thinking, still 
according to Macario, that
he must now say something. He brooded over a few little phrases, but Annetta 
prevented him from saying
them by speaking quite calmly about the novel. Apparently she expected nothing, 
and it was better not to
do  anything  which  she  did  not  foresee.  So  he  was  silent;  his  
position  was  already  excellent,  and  for  the
moment  he  wanted  nothing  more.  He  did  not  speak  of  love,  but  
everything  he  said  to  Annetta  was
coloured  by  his  feelings.  He  did  nothing  but  make  declarations  of  
love!  When  he  spoke  to  Annetta,  in  a
very  different  way  than  did  Macario,  he  hinted  at  it  in  every  word  
and  smile  or  tone.  When  saying  the
simplest things he felt his voice infused with a sweetness of which he had not 
thought himself capable, its
tone  so  clear  and  bold  that  it  seemed  possessive,  making  him  quiver  
all  over  with  the  excitement  of  a
realized dream.

He  ran  into  Macario  again,  who  with  suspicious  insistence  talked  to  
him  once  more  about  ways  of
getting  a  woman.  Alfonso  listened  indifferently  to  the  crudities  
suggested,  because  he  now  had  a  better
idea what to do in his own case. He was quite content at a pause in his 
relations with Annetta and did not
want it to stop before he knew what the next stage would be. Also he suffered 
less when away from her.
Waiting for the evening was a bore, but he did not daydream so much, because a 
smile from Annetta had
dissipated fantasies which she herself had created.

Alfonso  deduced  that,  even  if  she  did  not  love  him,  she  must  be  
flattered  by  his  love  and  respect.  He
exaggerated his shyness because that explained the strange situation and made 
it possible to prolong it.

Amid  this  love-making,  literary  work  languished,  which  flattered  
Alfonso  because  it  seemed  to  have
become secondary for Annetta too. One evening Alfonso happened to bring some of 
his work on the book,
and  Annetta  forgot  to  ask  if  she  could  read  it.  As  the  book  
proceeded,  however,  every  single  thing  was
done according  to  Annetta’s  suggestions,  and  every  day  Alfonso  felt  
the  plot  becoming  emptier  and  the
novel sillier. He thought that as confidence between them increased, a day 
would come when he could tell
her his opinion, but for the moment he did not even dare express the slightest 
doubt. He did not want to
expose  himself  to  the  danger  of  seeing  any  dimming  of  the  gleam  in  
Annetta’s  eyes  when  she  looked  at
him. For him that novel was of very slight importance, and he could not bear to 
hear even a brusque word
from his loved one because of it.

He was torn from this idyll not by any wish of his own or of Annetta’s—it had 
been created unknowingly


by Macario and was now destroyed by Miceni and Fumigi.

Miceni made it most obvious that he envied Alfonso his familiarity in the 
Maller home. Of course he had
not said so, and as usual Alfonso refused to admit it even when Miceni with his 
bizarre character made it
clear. Miceni’s darts did not wound him even when the poor man began to speak 
of his love for Annetta
and  to  pretend  that  it  would  have  been  reciprocated  had  he  been  
more  insistent.  From  some  words  of
Macario’s  Alfonso  knew  what  to  think  of  this.  One  day  Miceni,  as  if 
 feeling  more  intimate  with  Alfonso,
told  him why he had stopped paying court to Annetta: out of regard for Fumigi, 
whom he knew to be in
love with her. Fumigi was an old friend of Miceni’s who had got him his job at 
Mallers—he had a right to
consideration in return.

This  assertion  left  Alfonso  less  cold  than  the  other.  He  too  had  
noticed  that  Fumigi  was  in  love  with
Annetta,  and  it  was  a  love  which,  it  had  to  be  recognized,  might  
quite  probably  achieve  its  aim.  By  the
cold light of reason he realized that Fumigi was not too old and was a suitable 
match for Annetta.

Noticing  that  it  disturbed  Alfonso  to  hear  Fumigi  spoken  of,  Miceni  
often  did  so,  exorcizing  his  own
jealousy at the expense of Alfonso.

It is more difficult to seem indifferent when one is not than impassioned when 
one is indifferent. Miceni
usually  began  by  speaking  to  him  about  business,  a  pretext  to  go  to 
 his  room.  When  forced  to  name
Annetta, Alfonso sifted every word before saying it, and with a carelessness 
which he felt to be obviously
excessive  and  affected  spoke  of  her  as  if  he  had  seen  her  very  few 
 times  in  his  life.  He  said  she  was
beautiful  and  topped  his  show  of  indifference  by  mentioning  that  he  
desired  her  as  any  man  does  any
pretty woman. But when they spoke of Fumigi, he could not get out a word that 
sounded indifferent. He
was  not  bothered  if  Miceni  thought  that  Annetta  loved  him,  but  it  
hurt  him  deeply  that  any  man  could
think her lover to be anyone but himself. He said with visibly forced calm that 
he knew Fumigi and did not
think he could be in love with Annetta. Then Miceni lost his calm too.

“Why  d’you  think  I’d  come  and  tell  you,  if  it’s  not  true?  Ask  
around.  Everyone  in  town  knows  it  apart
from you.”

He  was  as  heated  in  affirming  as  was  Alfonso  in  denying  it;  but  
when  Alfonso  noticed  himself  to  be
straying  too  far  from  his  role  of  indifference,  he  cut  short  the  
discussion,  declaring  that  either  could  be
true and he really did not care. He spoke energetically, but too volubly, and 
the look on his face and sound
of his voice were anything but indifferent.

Pleased  as  if  bringing  good  news,  Miceni  told  him  that  Fumigi  and  
Annetta  were  engaged.  Alfonso
began laughing, calmly and this time sincerely.

“I was at the Mallers yesterday and would have been told if it had been true.”

“It’s  not  official  yet;  but  probably  as  we’re  talking  Fumigi  is  at  
Annetta’s  home  for  the  first  time  as  a
future husband.”

Miceni’s voice had gone shrill, as if offended by Alfonso’s tranquillity.

Alfonso  did  not  deign  to  discuss  the  matter.  The  evening  before  
Annetta  had  treated  him  even  better
than usual. She had told him about her childhood, her life in a college where 
she had been sent after her
mother’s  death.  These  were  confidences,  and,  surprised  and  pleased,  
Alfonso  saw  another  improvement
of     his position. For some time he had been admiring his own ability, and 
that evening, coming out of the
Maller home, he murmured:

“That’s the real art. Effortless advance.”

He  was  not  supposed  to  go  to  Annetta’s  that  evening,  but  agitated  
by  Miceni’s  words  he  walked  for  a
long time  up  and down  Via dei  Forni. The  house  looked just  as usual,  
its long  row of  uninhabited rooms
with windows hermetically closed and all blinds drawn; only the window of the 
living-room was half-open.

Coming  out  of  Via  dei  Forni  towards  the  sea  he  ran  into  Fumigi.  
Having  thought  of  him  so  much,
Alfonso felt embarrassed at suddenly setting eyes on him, and the other seemed 
no less confused.

“Are  you  …  leaving?”  asked  Fumigi,  stuttering  and  making  a  sign  
towards  the  Mallers’  house,  from
which direction Alfonso was coming.

“No!”said Alfonso rather sharply. Fumigi might have been accusing him of some 
crime. “I’ve been out
taking exercise for nearly an hour. If you’d like to keep me company …”

Fumigi, usually such a dandy, looked rather disordered; his tie was not in 
place, the collar of his black
overcoat, which was brand new, was turned up.

“Shall  we  go  to  the  new  port?”  he  asked.  He  looked  at  the  clock  
again  and  after  a  slight  hesitation
began to walk along beside Alfonso.

They were  silent  as they  moved along  under the  pale  rays of  the  setting 
 sun. From  the  station  square
they turned towards the sea and stopped on the first mole, recently finished 
with white irregular paving
stones.

“Splendid!” said Alfonso, glad to be able to talk and looking at the sun. Half 
its incandescent ball was
still showing out of the sea. The calm white light that illuminated the houses 
on the shore did not seem to
come from that red object. It made pink reflections on the horizon and reddened 
half a little white cloud,
motionless over the city where dark was already falling in the inner streets.

Neither  of  the  two  really  had  eyes  for  the  magnificent  spectacle.  
Alfonso  was  observing  Fumigi,  who
was so absorbed in his thoughts that he did not even bother to hide his 
preoccupation. He looked again at
his watch and murmured a few words which Alfonso did not understand; then he 
thrust his hands into his
pockets, trembling with impatience and looking at the water at his feet. He had 
even forgotten he was in
company.

“Are you in a hurry?” Alfonso asked him.

“No!” replied Fumigi. “I’ve got to be at an appointment at half-past seven.”


So what Miceni had said was true, Alfonso thought, and the appointment which 
Fumigi was so keen to
be  on  time  for  was  with  Maller.  Fumigi  was  awaiting  a  decision  and  
Alfonso  still  felt  so  sure  of  himself
that he pitied this feverish impatience of a poor man whom he knew was about to 
suffer.

Fumigi’s bearing was so abnormal that pretending not to know its cause made 
pretending not to notice
it impossible.

“Aren’t you well?”

“No  …  yes,  a  slight  headache.  But  what  disturbs  me  is  having  to  
stay  in  the  open  to  be  sure  of  not
missing my appointment. Anyway what I’m worried about just doesn’t really 
deserve it, I can assure you.”

“It’s unimportant, is it?” asked Alfonso in amazement.

“No,  very  important  indeed,  but  …”  and  he  gave  a  little  shrug  of  
the  shoulders  which  Alfonso  took  to
mean utter certainty about his own position.

“Then why worry?”

Alfonso  went  on  calming  him,  but  he  would  have  given  much  to  
destroy  this  confidence  of  Fumigi’s,
which stung him.

For  a  few  moments  Fumigi  seemed  calmer.  Then  he  fell  back  into  his  
meditations,  so  little  heeding
Alfonso that he suddenly bid him goodbye in the middle of another phrase which 
the other was thinking
up     to  calm  him.  He  needed  to  be  alone,  but  particularly  wanted  
to  make  time  pass,  and  he  bid  farewell
while  still  having  to  say  something—in  order  to  find  relief,  which  
was  not  what  he  would  have  said
willingly. He took his leave  rather wordily, mentioning another appointment  
he  had  to go  to even  before
that one.

Alfonso  followed  him  with  an  attentive  eye  and  noticed  a  slight  
hesitation  about  his  direction  on
reaching  the  middle  of  the  square.  It  was  obvious!  The  poor  man  was 
 just  wandering  about  with  his
agonizing doubt and had no other reason for moving.

That hesitation alone touched Alfonso’s pity and took away the anger aroused in 
him by Fumigi’s stupid
certainty. This pity even went so far that he began dreaming up ways in which 
he could reconcile his own
happiness with Fumigi’s. There were none, but that did not prevent him making a 
story out of a situation
in   which   he   reserved   for   himself   the   not   unpleasant   role   of 
  Fumigi’s   old   friend.   What   he   found
unpalatable  was  the  feeling  that  he  had  cooperated  in  Fumigi’s  
unhappiness  and  knowingly  deserved
someone’s  hatred  for  the  first  time  in  his  life.  This  was  enough  to 
 give  him  a  deep  disgust  at  his  own
happiness.

Then  he  settled  down  to  work  on  the  novel  in  case  the  nasty  labour 
 of  it  might  make  him  feel  he
deserved  his  good  fortune  more  and  as  if  he  were  placating  the  envy 
 of  the  Gods  by  making  himself
miserable.

Remembering a word of Miceni’s was enough to take away part of his security.
“Probably it’s all settled by this time.”

If that very second Alfonso had been suddenly told that Fumigi had killed 
himself after being refused by
Annetta, he would not have been at all sorry.

He happened to remain in that state of mind for a number of days. That evening 
he did not see Annetta.
The maid stopped him on the stairs to say that Signorina Annetta could not 
receive him.

“Is  there  news,  then?”  asked  Alfonso  in  alarm.  Then  seeing  the  
woman’s  surprise  he  added,  “Is  the
Signorina unwell?”

“No!”  replied  the  maid,  oldish  and  rather  pretentiously  dressed,  who  
had  always  treated  Alfonso  with
great  indifference,  maybe  partly  because  he  had  forgotten  to  flirt  
with  her.  “She’s  quite  well.”  And  she
hurried off as if she was so busy she could not remain idle for a few minutes.

That  was  enough  to  make  Alfonso  wonder  whether  Fumigi  had  received  a 
 different  reply  than  he  had
supposed.  Where  had  Fumigi  derived  that  security  in  which  he  seemed  
lulled?  Though  Alfonso  knew
nothing  new,  he  was  beginning  now  to  gather  together  signs  that  
Fumigi’s  question  had  been  greeted
favourably, and no longer found indications of its rejection as he had done 
till then. Even the maid’s state
of hurry seemed to show that a serious change had taken place in Annetta’s 
life.

Though  still  convinced  that  Fumigi  must  have  been  refused,  now  it  
was  only  because  it  seemed
incredible  that  Annetta  could  ever  consent  to  marry  him;  not  from  
love  of  anyone  else,  not  from  love  of
him. He had nothing to do with that decision, he felt now. Threatened with a 
great disaster, even when the
imminent danger had been avoided he would not feel any the safer.

Next  day  Miceni  told  him  that  he  had  no  news  yet  but  was  in  no  
hurry;  his  card  of  congratulations
would  still  arrive  in  time.  He  hurried  off  without  allowing  Alfonso  
time  to  make  a  reply  which  he  must
have  expected  to  be  sharp.  They  had  never  exchanged  a  single  word  
about  Alfonso’s  relations  with
Annetta, but Miceni acted as if he knew of them, and Alfonso realized this.

That  evening  he  went  to  Annetta’s.  On  the  way  he  felt  hopeful;  he  
would  find  her  unchanged  and
awaiting him in that library where he would spend yet another unforgettable 
evening.

Just as he was about to put his hat down in the entrance hall, already 
reassured, Santo called him from
the landing.

“The Signorina can’t see you today; she’s ill.”
Alfonso went pale. Was Miceni right then?

“Very ill?” he asked Santo. He had to pretend even with him.

“Oh  you  know!  Women!”  explained  Santo  with  the  irreverence  usual  to  
him  when  speaking  of  his
employers behind their backs.

She was not ill! In the drawing-room, all lit up as on evenings when she was 
receiving, maybe she was
sitting   next   to   Fumigi,   who   was   enjoying   the   full   joy   of   
sweet   emotion,   the   calm   of   uncontested


possession, which Alfonso thought must be supreme happiness.

Santo  had  already  turned  his  back.  Until  then  and  since  seeing  him  
at  the  Mallers,  Santo  had  treated
him  with  almost  irritating  servility.  His  contempt  now  was  an  evident 
 sign  that  he  considered  him  a
failure. Alfonso followed him for a step or two.

“Please tell Signorina Annetta that I’ve been here and am very sorry to hear 
she’s unwell.”

He  went  down  the  stairs  looking  straight  ahead  and  without  deigning  
to  answer  the  farewell  which
Santo did actually give. His thoughts were still on the two who were perhaps 
kissing alone in the sitting-
room; but until he was in the next street, he took care to show no sign on his 
face of the feelings agitating
him; someone might be watching him from that house so as to enjoy his sorrow.

This was a silly idea, he thought then: nobody bothered about him any more, 
even to hurt him. It was
drizzling, and he was holding his umbrella closed in his hand. The thought of 
how he could tell Miceni had
bothered him, as  he  had  imagined the  latter’s atrocious  and facile  irony. 
 But now  he  need  be  careful  no
longer.  To  hide  from  Miceni  the  stupid  illusions  he  had  nourished  
till  that  day  was,  he  now  realized,
impossible.  Yet,  he  might  try  to  describe  to  him  how  these  illusions 
 had  started  and  how  they  had  been
encouraged by Annetta.

If  all  was  over,  as  he  kept  repeating  to  himself  it  was,  then  he  
had  lost  a  very  great  deal  indeed.  His
life’s aim no less; what else remained to him? For that love he had forgotten 
his ambition which he did not
think could ever revive now that there was no future for him in the Maller 
household. To be drawn from
his  squalor  by  a  woman’s  kiss  had  been  a  dream,  a  splendid  dream.  
Life  for  a  time  had  lost  its  air  of
severity and injustice, had sent without a struggle fortune and happiness to 
one who deserved it; it sent
forth its dictat from above, and he had got wealth and love.

Suddenly he realized he was soaked to the skin and far from home. Was it true 
then? He felt he would
have  been  less  agitated  had he  been  in  no  doubt.  He  would  have  made 
 up  his mind  how  to  behave,  and
maybe  still  get  some  satisfaction  from  his  misfortune,  carried  his  
head  high,  repaid  indifference  by
indifference,  been  hurt  and  hurt  in  his  turn  by  showing  himself  
unharmed.  Annetta  was  capable  of
triumphing by the pain she brought him.

She was just as Macario had described her! Cold and vain, vain before all else. 
Was he not holding at
that  moment  the  proof  of  her  vanity,  that  novel  dictated  by  vanity  
in  person,  from  its  silly  vacuous
concepts to each of its emphatic phrases, attempts at flight by someone who did 
not know how to walk?
No mere spirit of vengeance made him think of her like that now. Once fallen 
from the height in which his
love had put her, he thought he saw her as she was.

On reaching home he found a note from Annetta asking him to call next day.

“Dear friend!” The opening alone should have been enough to change his mood and 
give him immense
joy. Instead he read and reread it, trying to find what was not there—an 
assurance that he was wrong in
fearing  Fumigi  and  doubting  Annetta’s  love  for  himself.  That  note  did 
 not  exclude  disaster,  or  if  it  did
momentarily, it was no destruction of the threat. He could not regain his calm 
or even enjoy being much
happier than he had been just before. Sorrow, particularly when over, has its 
attractions, and those with
weak  ambitions  find  a  satisfaction  in  dressing  up  in  it.  Could  he  
get  happiness  from  this  situation  when
chance  had  revealed  the  disaster  that  this  very  situation  could  be  
to  him?  He  could  always  be  thrown
aside like a useless object; as soon as Annetta neglected him, he would again 
become a poor little clerk
without even a right to show his suffering.

Not that it was suffering which had sent him wandering over the streets of the 
city shortly before, but
the great emotion of self-pity. If Fumigi had been rejected, his relationship 
with Annetta would continue
apparently unchanged; while in reality his jealousy, his fears, the threat of 
change, made it unendurable.
There was only one way to get out of such a situation. He could withdraw first 
and, however painful such
a renunciation, be able at least to think back over the whole adventure without 
blushing, without a feeling
of  offence.  Even  so,  it  would  not  be  a  pleasant  memory.  He  would  
never  be  able  to  forget  Annetta’s
hardness and vanity, discovered, it seemed, that very moment. The experience he 
had been through was
harsh  and  would  serve  him  for  the  whole  of  his  life.  Now  he  wanted 
 to  return  to  his  plain  habits,  to  the
ideal of work and solitude contested by no one. That was happiness. Habit and 
regularity would give it.

But when he was with Annetta, when she shook his hand with the same sweet smile 
with which she had
bade him farewell a few days ago as if there were nothing in the meantime to 
disturb their good relations,
he forgot his intentions. There was another way of dealing with that situation, 
he now understood, apart
from giving up the whole thing. His only regret was that he could not blurt out 
all that he had suspected
in the last few days so as to provoke an explanation which might lose him 
Annetta’s friendship, but could
also reaffirm, re-awaken it as love. Meanwhile shyness allowed him only to 
express calm and cordiality.

They were in the living-room and alone because Francesca was unwell. Annetta 
talked about a chapter
of the novel, made some suggestions; Alfonso approved these and without any 
effort was able to make a
show of admiration. It was not a moment for agitated criticism. Annetta needed 
advice because she was
finding  difficulty  in  making  headway  with  a  plot  that  was  now  
tending  to  the  absurd.  Her  hero  and
heroine  were  still  passionately  in  love  with  each  other  and  not  
saying  so  out  of  pride.  This  confession
would end the novel, and Annetta’s little head was beginning to fail in ideas 
of what to do next.

Suddenly Alfonso became talkative. He needed to talk, and began holding forth 
about the novel and his
admiration for Annetta’s ideas. When people shout, it does not matter what they 
say; the voice provides
the  outlet.  Alfonso  was  soothed  by  the  flow  of  his  own  words,  and  
such  pauses  as  he  made  were  from
calculation  and  from  an  idea  that  if  he  did  not  let  Annetta  talk,  
he  would  learn  nothing  about  her.
Eventually,  and  with  a  cold  calculation  which  at  once  took  him  to  
his  goal,  Alfonso  began  animatedly
describing his life every day, coming to the conclusion that his happy hours 
had added up to no more than


a few days in one whole year, counting among these all the hours he had spent 
at the Mallers.

At  his  request  Annetta  described  how  she  had  spent  the  last  week.  
When  she  began,  Alfonso  flushed
and stared, as mere listening did not seem enough. He wanted to guess at what 
point in her account she
would think of Fumigi, and to see her expression when she did.

That  week  she  had  been  to  the  theatre  twice.  But  she  had  also  a  
number  of  dull  evenings,  on  one  of
which she had been on the point of sending for him to raise her from her 
boredom with philosophical talk
and work together on the novel.

“I’d have loved to come!” murmured Alfonso in a voice suffocated with emotion.
“Yes?” asked Annetta, also blushing. “Another time then, we’re agreed?”

This gave Alfonso a lion’s courage.

“Nothing else?” he murmured when she had finished describing her week.
“Nothing else!” replied Annetta in surprise, suddenly going pale.

“I’ve spent a horrid week,” said Alfonso in a deep voice.

He  told  her  he  had  heard  a  disaster  was  hanging  over  him  and  had  
at  first  not  believed  this;  then  he
kept  on  coming  up  against  indications  confirming  the  threat,  so  that  
when  he  heard  this  had  been
avoided, he refused to believe it because he had so long considered it 
inevitable. Indeed he still doubted
it.  He  described  this  succession  of  events  so  faithfully  that,  on  
remembering  his  pain,  tears  came  to  his
eyes, and he had to stop talking.

It was his declaration; and when Alfonso thought it over later, he had to smile 
because it was certainly
not  love  which  had  brought  tears  to  his  eyes,  but,  as  always  with  
him,  self-pity.  Although  no  longer
speaking, tears were pouring down his cheeks, and he did not dry them because 
the gesture would show
them  to Annetta, who might not have noticed. This was the second time that he 
wept in front of her; the
first time the results had not been very flattering.

“Tears!” exclaimed Annetta moved. “Am I the cause?”

Wanting  to  soothe  him,  she  took  him  affectionately  by  the  hand.  The  
gesture,  not  the  contact,  not  the
pleasure  of  desire,  made  Alfonso  happy.  It  destroyed  his  misery  about 
 the  coldness  of  his  relations  with
Annetta,  and  the  change  from  his  own  idea  of  those  relations  to  
these  real  ones  in  which  Annetta  now
acted as consoler was so sharp that he had to close his eyes. He kissed 
Annetta’s hand without moving it,
bending  his  head  until  his  lips  reached  it,  careful  this  time  to  
make  the  bold  gesture  respectful.  He  just
grazed  the  hand  with  his  lips;  it  was  a  sketch  of  a  kiss,  and  he  
did  not  want  to  go  any  further.  Till  then
they had advanced very little, and if they went no further than that kiss, they 
would be able to return to
the almost ingenuous sweetness of their relationship.

“The  explanation  is  sufficient,”  said  Annetta  with  a  smile,  but  in  a 
 voice  broken  with  emotion,  which
surprised Alfonso. She withdrew her hand.

“Poor  Fumigi!”  exclaimed  Alfonso,  who  could  not  manage  to  infuse  his  
own  voice  with  the  emotion
heard in Annetta’s.

“Not so poor!”

She said that he was a strong and energetic man who would soon recover from 
this little blow. She had
felt honoured by his request and had not accepted because she did not wish to 
marry.

“It’s partly our artistic ideal that makes me prefer my liberty.” This phrase, 
with the first person plural,
cancelled in Alfonso the impression of coldness given by the preceding one.

“Anyway, Fumigi remains a good friend of mine, he’s promised! And now let’s go 
back to our novel.”

But  they  did  not  go  back  to  it.  There  was  too  big  a  break  between 
 that  cold,  forced  thing  and  the
passion which they were talking to hide. Alfonso saw that Annetta was now calm 
again, her voice steady
and sure, her hand firm as it held the pen.

“Now what on earth does this fool of ours want?” asked Alfonso, alluding to 
their hero, who had been
made to pass, in a dark corridor, his wife who loved him and from dignity was 
pretending not to see him.
“Does such dignity exist?”

Speaking  and  acting  with  an  air  of  spontaneity,  which  was  really  
calculated  audacity,  he  knelt  down
before  Annetta  and  tried  to  take  her  hand  again.  She  began  to  laugh 
 but  put  her  own  head  close  to
Alfonso’s dark one; neither could have said how they came to kiss each other on 
the lips for the first time.
So little had he foreseen it that after the contact ceased, he thought he had 
not felt all the happiness he
should and tried to make up for this by a second kiss. But she had drawn back 
her head and risen to her
feet  in  alarm,  apparently  not  feeling  quite  safe  when  sitting.  But  
her  cheeks  were  brightly  flushed,  her
eyes  glistening  and  splendid,  and  she  gave  him  a  glance  which  did  
not  seem  angry  though  it  must  have
been intended to intimidate him. Like that she was really lovely.

“Enough, Signor Nitti!”

He got to his feet and, standing still, in a voice thick with emotion said, to 
calm her, that it was indeed
enough, and he could live near her all his life and never ask for more.

Annetta  smiled  in  thanks;  she  felt  safe  with  this  boy;  it  had  been  
really  this  boyish  quality  which  had
taken  him  so  far.  What  had  she  to  fear  from  this  personified  
shyness?  She  had  been  touched  by  the
sweetness of his wordless love, by his shy silence even after his first daring 
had been unpunished. He had
never  hinted  in  any  way  at  that  stolen  kiss  on  her  hand,  never  
betrayed  impatience,  and  she  had
ingenuously believed that he would ask for nothing more, considering that 
because the little favour came
from     her, it would be enough.

They had now taken a huge step forward, and there was no way back. They had 
spoken, and what was
more Alfonso had seen Annetta’s weakness, had suddenly discovered he was the 
stronger.

Annetta did not realize this and, with a smile intended to attenuate the 
despotism of her order, told him


never to talk of love again. She was disobeyed at once. He asked if he could 
please talk about it just once
more  and  then  made  a  regular  love  declaration,  mingling  memories  of  
novels  he  had  read  with  phrases
that  had  long  been  going  round  in  his  brain  and  which  were  only  
awaiting  a  chance  to  be  addressed  to
Annetta. He had been longing to talk about his love to her and had thought of 
this as his first poem; love
could  be  ennobled,  elevated,  by  intelligent  wording,  he  had  thought,  
and  this  could  help  to  make  their
difference in status forgotten. Now, though, he realized that desire is 
wordless. As he mouthed contrived
sentimentalities as seemed his duty, he felt their bloodless and lifeless 
conventionality; this surprised him,
as              he did not know to what to attribute such coldness. Only when 
he spoke of his friendship with her did
his  voice  fuse  and  tremble  in  an  emotion  which  took  his  breath  
away.  He  had  thought  of  this  sweet
intimacy ever since first being near Annetta, but now, speaking of it, a quite 
different desire was dressed
out    in the same words and made his head swim as it passed before him.

“I knew it,” said Annetta with sincerity, “but it would have been better not to 
tell me.”

She threatened him with a jesting finger, while a shadow of seriousness passed 
over her face. Anyway,
his words of love seemed colder to her, just as they did to Alfonso himself, 
because of what had preceded
and  provoked  them.  She  did  not  fear  them;  they  were  a  mere  
satisfaction  to  her  vanity.  She  interrupted
him, saying with great sweetness, “Enough, enough!” so that, had he not been 
bored, Alfonso would have
gone on.

This was enough for that evening, but not for the next. Until this point timid 
partly on purpose, Alfonso
realized  how  much  happiness  he  could  derive  from  the  step  he  had  
taken.  She  had  pointed  out  to  him
with some clarity how far he could go, and he wanted to be at least always at 
that point if not beyond it.
So  every  evening  he  said  a  word  of  love  to  Annetta;  if  he  could  
not  at  first,  he  did  it  on  leaving,  when
shaking hands in farewell.

Suddenly  Francesca  had  become  Annetta’s  inseparable  companion  again.  
She  was  always  present  at
their meetings and, now that they were working very little or not at all on the 
novel, took an active part in
their conversation. All strain in her relations with Annetta, first cold and 
then exaggeratedly friendly, had
now  vanished,  and  the  two  women  chattered  away  of  fashions,  journeys, 
 and  people  he  did  not  know,
leaving him silent and embarrassed. He remained mute even when they spoke of 
other things, because he
did  not  feel  like  addressing  banalities  or  critical  remarks  to  
Annetta.  All  that  was  too  cold,  null  and
aimless. Why, he thought, exchange words which he did not care to say or she to 
hear? Some did occur to
him,  but  of  the  kind  that  needed  some  bold  and  passionate  action  
immediately  after  being  spoken.
Anyway he did not care much. The kiss on Annetta’s hand had given him a need to 
talk, that on her lips
had taken it away.

He was always received in the living-room because the stove was there, and 
every object in it reminded
him  of  desires  and  joys  obtained.  Every  single  thing  in  that  
confusion  of  differing  furniture,  solid
comfortable  pieces,  was  indissolubly  linked  to  his  sensations,  seemed  
part  of  Annetta,  mirrors  always
reflecting her face. When once he had to wait for a long time in that room 
alone, these sensations lulled
him,  then  became  so  strong,  the  closeness  of  Annetta  so  palpable,  
that  if  she  had  suddenly  entered,  he
would  have  taken  her  in  his  arms  and  treated  her  as  his  own,  with  
one  word  which  he  thought  could
explain  and  justify  all.  But  Francesca  came  in  first  and  found  
Alfonso  confused,  stumbling  over  words
which he had prepared and must now keep to himself.

One  evening  Francesca  came  and  told  him  that  Annetta  had  had  to  go  
off  with  her  father  to  visit
relations.  They  had  been  unable  to  warn  him  in  time,  Francesca  said  
with  a  sly  smile,  but  asked  him  to
stay  and  keep  her  company.  This  disappointment  was  such  a  shock  that 
 Alfonso  did  not  know  how  to
react.  He  stood  rigidly  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour  replying  in  
monosyllables  to  the  questions  which  the
Signorina  kindly  asked  him,  then,  to  avoid  the  bother  of  pretending,  
went  off  saying  that  he  had  only
looked in to excuse himself for not staying that evening as he was feeling 
unwell. Francesca gave him an
ironic but benevolent bow of farewell.

Impatience made Alfonso lose the correctness of bearing admired by Annetta till 
then, and if she did not
take  offence,  it  was  because  every  rudeness  of  his  was  explained  and 
 excused  by  his  obvious  suffering.
Francesca only had to move up to a window and look out on the street for him to 
become suddenly active,
though he had been completely absorbed till then in his own dreams and desires. 
He said his word of love
to  her in a low voice like a melodramatic broken cry.

In Annetta’s eyes his worst crime was his inability to keep his bearing 
unchanged before a third person.
With others present he became as mute as he had been before from shyness, worse 
because he seemed
discontented  and  irritated  too.  One  Wednesday  Prarchi  came  and  asked  
him  if  he  felt  unwell.  This
question finally opened Alfonso’s mouth because he could still talk about 
himself. He talked feelingly of an
illness  which  he  could  not  define,  a  disquiet  which  took  away  sleep, 
 pleasure  in  study,  joy  in  life;
everything bored him.

Prarchi  gave  him  serious  advice  as  a  doctor.  He  diagnosed  the  vague  
illness  of  course  as  nerves,  and
advised him to go and spend a month or so at home in the open air. Annetta 
understandingly and sweetly
suggested that she ask for this leave of his. The suggestion of this cure 
annoyed Alfonso, who let out: “I’d
have to go a very long way to get any good from it.”

Had Prarchi not been simple enough to try and diagnose the illness according to 
the systems taught in
clinics, Alfonso’s phrase would surely have made him realize what the matter 
was.

One  evening  he  found  her  alone,  and  when,  flustered  by  this  
unhoped-for  chance,  he  began  putting  a
bold plan into action, she dropped a few brusque words which had the effect of 
a cold shower. She said
that  she  had  found  an  excuse  to  get  Francesca  away  and  have  a  
private  chat  with  him.  She  was
displeased with him; she resented his bearing, which looked haughty and 
careless to others. Did he want


to  compromise  her?  She  gave  him  a  suspicious  glance.  Alfonso  guessed  
its  meaning.  She  had  thought
herself dealing with a shy man deeply, aimlessly in love. Now she was afraid of 
finding him to be an able
deceiver who was trying to compromise her.

Alfonso was alarmed. He had no intention of compromising her, but had, 
knowingly, the aim which she
attributed  to  him,  and  which  she  thought  that  he  intended  to  reach  
by  compromising  her.  He  now
expected to be forbidden access to the house, which would have been a logical 
consequence of what she
had said. He could not excuse himself; he had been bold, ill-behaved. His only 
defence was to go pale and
act as if he had not properly understood what he was being blamed for.

But  his  alarm  was  Annetta’s  best  excuse.  She  went  on  reproving  him,  
yet  asking  affectionately  if  her
friendship was no longer enough for him and if he did not think that by his 
ways he was exposing himself
to the risk of losing that too.

“I’ll  do  whatever  you  like!”  exclaimed  Alfonso,  relieved  at  finding  
her  so  far  from  forbidding  him  the
house.  Obviously  she  only  wanted  to  prevent  him  going  too  far,  to  
intimidate  him.  She  herself  had  been
caught  unexpectedly,  had  reached  a  point  which  she  never  would  have  
in  cold  blood,  and  was  now
regretting the time when this strong, clever young man had loved and admired 
her so timidly.

Annetta felt her compassion growing. She came up to him, squeezed his hand and 
asked:

“Let’s  see,  Signor  Alfonso,  if  we  can’t  live  like  good  friends  
again,  happy  and  contented  as  before?
What’s happened to make you always silent and showing people how wretched you 
are?”

“It’s  that  I  always  have  words  here,”  and  he  pointed  to  his  throat, 
 “and  am  prevented  from  saying
them.” He was still calling what he had in his throat ‘words’! Annetta at once 
became happy; he had not
seen her so for a month, not since that evening when they had at last spoken of 
their love. The fact is that,
due to the sharp lesson given him by Annetta, he was not for the moment at all 
troubled by desires. He
kissed her hands when she left them in his; this gave him only the pleasure of 
reassurance, as well as the
bother of having to pretend enthusiasm. She grew warmer, as the excitement of 
the evening brought back
his quick original turn of speech, and this always stirred her.

He  went  off  tired  but  quite  calm,  with  a  weariness  like  satiety.  
When  Annetta  had  tried  to  intimidate
him  and  lead  him  back  to  his  former  show  of  respect,  he  had  
suffered  at  finding  her  as  Macario  had
described.  That  evening  he  had  first  seen  her  cold  and  disdainful,  
obviously  a  calculated  bearing  due  to
fear      of being compromised in an unsuitable love affair; then she had been 
stirred, though her disdain had
not  lessened.  Perhaps  she  loved  him,  but  self-interest  had  struggled  
with  this  love  and  been  victorious,
until  her  senses  spoke.  All  that  was  so  clear,  showed  so  obviously,  
that  Alfonso  noted  it  even  in  his
daydreams. For as usual he tried to annul his discomfort by urging his fantasy 
to deviate from reality. But
this    time his daydream was no help. He could imagine Annetta giving way, 
feeling the same desires as he
did,  but  only  for  a  few  seconds.  Coldness  preceded  and  followed  her  
bursts  of  emotion;  calculation
marked the limits of the tiny whiffs of passion which the young lady allowed 
herself. This struggle of hers,
once won, would always be starting all over again.

Such  was  not  the  only  distress  brought  by  this  evening.  Till  then,  
though  conscious  that  the  first
impulse for his love had come from Annetta’s wealth, he had never felt that 
others, even Annetta herself,
knew and perhaps exaggerated the importance of that element in it. He loved 
her! Even in his soliloquies
he defended himself warmly from such a reproach. Now he loved her! There was an 
enormous difference
between him and that able intriguer whom Annetta seemed to suspect him to be; 
what she had taken as a
means towards achieving his ends, such as melancholy and disquiet, had actually 
derived from desire and
love.  His  was  certainly  not  a  respectful  love,  and  the  hardness  of  
Annetta’s  character  prevented  it  from
being  so,  but  he  loved  her  and  wanted  to  convince  himself  that  if  
her  circumstances  changed,  he  would
love her all the same. This he felt so vehemently that it seemed he had never 
expressed what he felt then.

In  spite  of  his  love  he  was  still  harsh,  even  unjust  in  judging  
her  character.  Why,  if  Annetta  regretted
her  momentary  defeats,  did  she  not  take  away  all  possibility  of  them 
 by  forbidding  him  access  to  her
home?  That  Annetta  was  promising  herself  a  triumph  over  her  own  
weakness  he  would  not  admit.  No!
She was simply pretending to escape those uncontrollable moments, though 
longing for them when calm.
From this conclusion of his, Alfonso’s contempt grew, as did his hopes.

From  then  on,  he  was  able  to  follow  part  of  Annetta’s  orders  and  
control  himself  before  others;  but
when alone with her Alfonso was calculatedly daring, forcing himself to be so 
in spite of the blood rushing
to his heart and snatching at his words.

One evening when, after waiting in vain for Francesca to leave the room, 
Annetta accompanied him on
to  the  landing,  he  resolutely  carried  out  a  plan  he  had  had  in  his 
 mind  for  several  evenings.  In  the  full
light, there before all those doors, any one of which could suddenly open, he 
drew her to him and kissed
her  on  the  lips.  Annetta,  terrified,  broke  away  from  his  embrace,  
but  shaken  and  not  at  all  angry,
murmured gently: “Leave me, Alfonso!”

He went off with drunken steps, though even in his agitation he had a clear 
idea why Annetta had not
rebuked him. She liked such daring, and hesitations imposed by respect merely 
satisfied her vanity. When
drawing her to him he had muttered aloud: “If I’m killed for this, it would be 
a fine death!”

He  had  not  needed  to  say  the  melodramatic  phrase,  as  his  action  was 
 already  excused  in  Annetta’s
eyes, so Alfonso had grounds for believing.

Next evening she refused to accompany him beyond the living-room door, but 
laughingly, with an air of
teasing. They had been laughing the whole evening, because Alfonso had firmly 
decided to make himself
agreeable; certainly Annetta did not like glum discontented men around her, 
only happy faces.

It was not only his concern for Annetta’s wishes. He had been suspected of 
wanting to compromise her
and wanted to avoid all hint of such baseness, particularly as he hoped not to 
have to fall back on it. He


was  particularly  careful  with  Macario,  whom  he  suspected  of  trying  
for  his  own  aims  to  find  out  what
form their literary work took. Alfonso decided to show a great deal of interest 
in this work and to pretend,
nevertheless,  that  only  a  spirit  of  duty  made  him  continue  to  
frequent  the  Maller  home.  “For  really,”  he
assured Macario “I have to be so careful there that it bores me.”

But he felt that the other did not believe him.

Partly  to  save  himself  from  the  machinations  which  he  feared,  and  
also  to  make  a  merit  of  his  own
discretion,  he  told  Annetta  about  Macario’s  questions  and  his  own  
replies.  The  latter  did  not  entirely
satisfy her, and she advised him to exaggerate less so as to be more easily 
believed. She said, quite rightly
as  Alfonso  recognized,  that  he  had  not  used  all  his  perspicacity  in  
getting  Macario  to  believe  in  the
coldness  of  his  relations  with  Annetta,  his  conscience  being  so  
delicate  and  honest.  No!  Once  this
conscience   of his was smoothed, he had treated the matter as if it were of 
secondary importance. Deep
down he did not dislike making Macario jealous.

This weakness became obvious when he tried to deceive Miceni as well as 
Macario. It was easy, Miceni
being far from suspecting anything, so far that Alfonso was piqued and often 
felt an urge to turn the other
into  a  confidant  and  his  contempt  into  envy;  for  it  was  more  and  
more  obvious  that  Miceni  thought
Alfonso loved Annetta and was not loved in return. He did not know of Annetta’s 
rejection of Fumigi, and
Fumigi must have told him a lie to explain why there had been no engagement. It 
was strange how easily
Miceni, usually so  sharp, believed  the  tales  spun for  him. Fumigi, he  
told Alfonso,  was about  to marry  a
girl richer and lovelier than Annetta, whom he had left because of her.

Alfonso  found  it  easier  to  keep  silent  about  himself  and  his  
relations  with  Annetta  on  noticing  that,  to
avenge himself on Miceni and irritate him, he only had to deride Fumigi and his 
pretensions.

“The man dropped his idea of asking for Annetta’s hand from one moment to the 
next, did he? Odd! I
was told he’d only dropped it after putting it into execution!”

Miceni went red as a boiled prawn and answered furiously, as if to a personal 
offence, that Annetta was
a vain little thing who wanted to see someone die of love for her, but had not 
succeeded so far.

Alfonso could only feel angry with Fumigi for a short time. One morning, when 
going to the office, he
saw  the  little  man  trotting  along  in  the  same  direction.  Alfonso  
passed,  pretending  not  to  see  him,  but
Fumigi  ran  behind  calling  him  loudly.  He  turned  and  was  surprised  to 
 find  a  very  different  figure  from
what  he  had  expected.  It  was  not  the  gauntness  and  pallor  of  the  
face  that  surprised  him;  it  was  the
disquiet in the eyes, the strange chewing or rather ruminating movement of the 
mouth, and particularly
the careless attire: a jacket that was too long and did not seem made for him, 
light white trousers in spite
of  a  temperature  slightly  below  zero,  and  on  his  right  knee  a  large 
 ink  mark  at  which  Alfonso,  out  of
politeness, tried not to stare.

“I’ve to announce that I’m marrying … marrying …” and he did not seem to 
remember the name of his
fiancée.  Alfonso  congratulated  him  hesitatingly.  He  did  not  understand; 
 the  man  looked  more  mad  than
happy.

But he talked more or less sense, though his tongue seemed out of control, as 
it rushed along at a great
pace and Alfonso found it difficult to follow him, Fumigi’s pronunciation being 
slurred and not at all clear.
When the other realized he was not understood, he began shouting to make 
himself clearer.

“I understand, I understand!” cried Alfonso in alarm.

Fumigi  described  his  studies  in  mechanics.  He  had  invented  a  
traction-engine  which  decreased  fuel
consumption by seventy-five per cent. He was not quite sure about it yet, 
because he had no means so far
of measuring the exact consumption of petrol. It was an air-pressure machine.

“I’ve unfortunately no means … that is … for measuring … In theory I’m sure …”

Alfonso, who knew nothing about mechanics, asked him, just to show he was 
taking an interest in what
was being told: “Why don’t you use a petrol gauge?”

The other one looked at him in amazement: “I’ll try.”
Alfonso muttered, “Do you still go to Signorina Annetta’s?”
“Very rarely.”

“I don’t go any more because I’ve no time. So much … so much to do.”
The clock in the square struck nine. Fumigi counted the nine strokes.
“Nine o’clock already? I must be off.”

He  put  his  right  hand  gently  into  Alfonso’s,  then  quickly  withdrew  
it  and  let  it  drop  to  his  side.  His
mouth  had  formed  no  farewell  and  was  busy  chewing,  while  his  
thoughts  were  obviously  now  all  on  the
next place he had to go; he turned and trotted off towards the sea, crossing 
the Corso diagonally.

That  day  Miceni  and  Alfonso  did  not  quarrel.  Shaken,  Alfonso  asked  
Miceni  what  illness  Fumigi  was
suffering from.

“Illness?” asked Miceni in an angry tone. “It’s not illness, it’s nervous 
over-excitement from working too
hard. He invents machines, as well as working all day long in his office.”

“I’m so glad!” said Alfonso sincerely. “Has the doctor assured him he’ll 
recover?”
He longed to be certain that Fumigi’s illness was not serious.

“Oh yes, of course!” replied Miceni brusquely.

Reassured, Alfonso said he hoped to see Fumigi very soon again and in good 
health. He would be warm
to him and try to do all he could to alleviate the sorrows which he himself had 
helped to bring on the poor
little  man.  That  evening  he  ran  into  Prarchi,  rushing  furiously  down  
the  Corso;  he  stopped  him.  “Sorry,
I’ve no time!” said Prarchi, trying to pass.

“Just one question. How’s Fumigi?”
Prarchi at once forgot he had no time.


“How d’you know he’s ill?”

“I spoke to him this morning, and he seemed very odd.”

Prarchi hesitated for a minute, then: “It’s true,” he confirmed. “I’ve noticed 
it too. But I can say nothing
yet. He’s been in the hands of his family doctor till now, and I’ve only been 
called by Maller today. I heard
some  talk  of  nervous  tension,  and  that  seems  possible.  A  month  ago  
he  was  just  excited  and  no  more.
He’d  gone  back  to  his  studies  suddenly,  and  when  I  advised  him  to  
rest,  he  answered  with  an  energy  I
wouldn’t have thought him capable of: ‘Better die and achieve some result. I’m 
old and in a hurry.’ Who
can tell? Perhaps I’m mistaken and it’s only a matter of tension, as it’s 
called.”

Again  Prarchi  hesitated.  Then  resolutely,  in  a  deeply  moved  tone,  he  
said:  “To  you  I  can  talk.  I  wish  I
were mistaken, but I don’t think so. It’s progressive paralysis. Please don’t 
mention this to anyone for the
moment.”

He shook the hand which Alfonso had held out to him before hearing the terrible 
verdict and went off at
a run.


XIII

HE FINANCIAL POSITION of the Lanuccis showed no signs of improvement. The old 
man’s business affairs
always  came  to  the  same  end,  and  Gustavo  was  without  a  job  for  the 
 second  time.  As  poverty
increased so did ill-humour, and Alfonso, who was now spending more time at the 
Mallers than with the
Lanuccis, suffered particularly in their company because he was unused to the 
asperities that came from

need.

When Gustavo came home one day and announced that he had left his job because 
his boss had insulted
him, there was an ugly scene. First the old man praised his son’s self-respect 
and told him he was a real
Lanucci. His mood only changed after his wife observed sadly that the family 
finances would be worse for
this.   At  the  idea  of  any  increase  in  poverty,  the  old  man  lost  
all  logic  and  pride.  He  yelled  and  cursed,
more  and  more  put  out  by  the  pert  replies  of  Gustavo,  who  was  
trying  to  safeguard  his  own  dignity  as
best he could. In his fury the old man said that he was sick and tired of 
bearing the expenses of the whole
family  all  alone.  Again  and  again  his  wife  asked  him  not  to  shout  
so.  Being  more  educated  she  realized
how this scene must disgust Alfonso and was ashamed of it; but she could find 
no better way of stopping
him than by shouting back at him herself. As she grew excited, she became 
insulting and gave free vent to
the bitterness stored up in her heart by the wretchedness of her life. When the 
old man, for lack of other
arguments, repeated that he was tired of working alone for them all, she lost 
her temper and said it was
not     true that he was working for them all and that he scarcely earned 
enough to keep himself.

This  was  enough  to  silence  Lanucci—mortified,  with  bloodless  lips  and  
glasses  askew  (being  ill-made
they hung over to the right when he forgot to adjust them)—after a long pause 
he said gently:

“I wasn’t saying that to you but to this layabout here. Is it right he should 
live off us when even Lucia
earns her own living?”

Signora Lanucci was touched at once, and Alfonso thought she must be regretting 
her harsh remarks.
But  seeing  that  the  old  man  would  still  not  be  quiet,  she  grew  
angry  again  and  called  imperiously:
“Enough, enough!” with a glance towards Alfonso, whose silence she interpreted 
as ominous. But he was
actually silent because, understanding the reasons for these quarrels, he felt 
touched himself. Taking the
old man’s part he told Signora Lanucci that her husband should be allowed to 
defend himself. Assured by
this that the sight of their disputes aroused no anger or contempt in Alfonso, 
she became gentler, as she
would  have  been  from  the  very  first  had  she  not  been  more  
preoccupied  with  diminishing  the  bad
impression on Alfonso than with attacking her husband.

“Enough  now!”  she  repeated.  “You,  Gustavo,  will,  I  hope,  deign  to  
find  yourself  another  job,  so  all
arguments and quarrels between you and your father will end. Maybe what is a 
misfortune for us today
can become luck for us tomorrow. You may be the person who makes us a bit 
richer and so a bit nicer.”

She shook her husband’s hand, and the tears came to her eyes.

At  the  beginning  of  the  dispute,  Lucia,  shouting,  had  ostentatiously  
stopped  her  ears  with  her  hands,
and  hers  was  the  only  behaviour  which  disgusted  Alfonso.  Had  he  
shown  this  disgust  Signora  Lanucci
would have got no pleasure from his indulgence about the other matter, for her 
fear of disgusting him was
due  to  not  having  abandoned  all  her  hopes  in  him  for  Lucia.  She  
felt  that  if  a  young  man  like  Alfonso
entered her family, he would reform it; and, what was more, however much Lucia 
denied it, she presumed
the girl was, must be, in love with him. But Lucia had different tastes. And 
she could not see in Alfonso
the virtues which her mother found in him.

Of course the old woman was not blind, and her hopes had been diminishing for a 
long time, but they
were still alive. She had only spoken of them with her daughter when Alfonso 
began to give her lessons,
and her mother’s explanations had been enough to make Lucia put up with the 
fiend of a teacher whom
they had imposed on her. That showed her intelligence, as did her losing all 
hope long before her mother.
Struck by some act of indifference by Alfonso, Signora Lanucci would sometimes 
declare to her husband
that  she  had  lost  hope,  but  even  then  these  were  outbursts  of  anger 
 rather  than  of  disappointment.  It
would  have  been  so  wonderful,  and,  according  to  common  sense,  it  was 
 something  that  not  only  could
happen but should happen; for when two young people, both friendly, are  thrown 
continuously together,
they inevitably fall in love sooner or later. And so the Signora Lanucci’s 
hopes continued to live on, only
communicated  to  her  husband  in  low  tones  and  in  bed,  before  they  
closed  their  eyes  in  sleep  to  dream
about them.

She  was  the  first  in  the  Lanucci  family  to  discover  that  Alfonso  
was  in  love  with  Annetta.  She  did  not
know  Annetta  at  all,  and  had  even  been  ignorant  of  her  existence  
before  she  became  interested  in  her
because of Alfonso’s passion; but she had discovered this love almost at the 
same time as Alfonso himself.
She  noticed  his  restlessness,  his  variable  moods  and  drew  conclusions  
which  happened  to  be  right:  one
that his agitation was due to love, the other that this love was inspired by 
Annetta Maller. Her hopes were
not  dashed  by  this  discovery  because  she  rightly  thought  that  
Alfonso’s  passion  would  bring  him  many
sorrows from which he might take refuge in the ever-open arms of Lucia. When 
Alfonso was still spending
a good  part  of  his time  with  them,  she  had  amused herself  making  sly  
hints  in order  to  learn  more,  and
Alfonso  had  reacted  so  openly  that  on  indications  thus  drawn  from  
him  she  was  even  able  to  follow  the
phases  through  which  the  affair  passed,  the  usual  ups  and  downs  of  
love,  all  strung  together  by  her  as:
“Hot … cold … quarrel … peace … he loves her!”

He  loved  her,  yes,  he  certainly  loved  her!  She  had  read  it  on  
Alfonso’s  brow  that  evening  when  he
returned  beaming  from  a  visit  to  the  Mallers,  after  three  days  of  
despair  following  the  Fumigi  incident.


During those three days she had high hopes; later she was on the verge of 
despair because Annetta’s kiss
was almost visible on Alfonso’s lips; it had changed his features.

But the morning after, on seeing him sad at breakfast, she at once hoped she 
had been deceived. She
sat down next to him and with an air of affectionate sympathy asked him the 
reason for his ill-humour and
for  the  sorrows  troubling  him,  to  judge  from  his  expression.  He  
replied  sadly  that  he  was  not  well,  but
when Signora Lanucci, piqued, warned him that ladies of high society were not 
to be trusted because they
enjoyed flattery and flirting but eventually dropped men without a thought, he 
replied that he had no idea
to  whom  she  was  alluding  because  no  one  was  flattering  him  at  all.  
But  he  gave  a  sure,  happy  smile  as
one who knows his own mind, and on leaving him she was convinced of having 
judged correctly the night
before.  Annetta  had  told  him  she  loved  him,  and  perhaps  she  did.  
Before  drawing  her  conclusions  she
wanted to wait and hear the opinion of old Maller, whose opposition could 
restore Alfonso to Lucia. She
passed  on  her  observations  to  her  husband  with  a  long  preamble  
intended  to  prove  to  him,  and  at  the
same time to herself, that Maller would never consent to the marriage of his 
daughter with a petty clerk.

Lanucci,  on  the  other  hand,  was  delighted  to  hear  of  Alfonso’s  love  
affair.  It  was  long  since  he  had
shared his wife’s hopes and was now delighted at the idea of a friend of his 
becoming Maller’s son-in-law.
He would become the protégé of a highly placed personage, a protection which 
would be enough to make
his business affairs prosper. So while Signora Lanucci treated Alfonso more 
coldly, he began to show him
deference, and when his wife examined Alfonso’s words to try and reinforce her 
hopes, he would enquire
what point Alfonso had reached, in the hopes of hearing the good news he was 
expecting.

Lucia became more friendly with Alfonso too, while before, offended by his 
complete indifference, she
had treated him with affected contempt. Never pretty, she had recently become 
more attractive; now that
this  period  of  growth  was  over,  her  mouth  seemed  smaller  and  so  her 
 features  more  regular;  she  had
good  hands  and  small  feet  always  elegantly  shod.  A  lady-killer  or  
two  on  the  Corso  had  paid  her
compliments,  which  made  her  resent  Alfonso’s  indifference  more  
strongly.  When  she  was  told,  as  her
mother could not keep quiet about it even with her, that Alfonso was in love, 
she became gentler with him
because this love seemed to excuse his behaviour to her.

Gustavo was more frank. He went straight to Alfonso and asked him, if he were 
to become Maller’s son-
in-law, to get him a job as commissionaire at the bank where he guessed life 
was very snug. Gustavo was
the only one of the Lanucci family whom Alfonso quite liked. Above all he 
preferred his frankness to the
falsity of the others, to their allusions which were always self-interested in 
some way. He liked Gustavo as
a character. For a long time young Lanucci had ceased struggling against his 
own laziness and, to spare
himself remorse, elevated it to a theory. This had made him so serene that 
talking to him, and seeing him
always calm and content with no doubts, Alfonso found peace too. In his long 
periods of idleness Gustavo
had  used  his  imagination  a  great  deal,  and  need  of  money  had  
sparked  in  him  some  original  and  comic
ideas. His good humour was unalterable and withstood both the shouting of his 
‘dear parents’ (he never
omitted  the  adjective)  and  the  rebukes  of  his  various  bosses  to  whom 
 he  always  attributed  strange  and
unfortunate characteristics. “They don’t know how to live!” he would say, 
really surprised at finding them
angered by the mixing-up of papers entrusted to him or by some impertinence of 
his:

“Such men die young” or “There’s someone I’d never marry.”

Macario  was  away  for  the  whole  month  of  March,  and  Alfonso  took  his 
 morning  walks  with  Gustavo,
who was an early riser, the only good habit in which they had succeeded in 
training him. They took short
trips  to  a  hill  about  half-an-hour’s  walk  from  the  town.  On  reaching 
 it  Alfonso  would  seek  shade  and  sit
down, while Gustavo stretched out in the sun like a cat, and in accordance with 
some theories of his own
on hygiene, opened his mouth to let in the light and the warmth. He was silent 
for hours, as was Alfonso
for  completely  different  reasons.  He  would  keep  his  eyes  shut  and  
fall  asleep  or  drop  off  into  a  kind  of
Nirvana in which he understood nothing, although still stuttering words without 
sense. When Gustavo had
money,  however  little,  he  did  not  leave  the  town,  for  he  preferred  
sleeping  in  some  café  or  watching
others playing billiards for days on end. He did not play himself as he did not 
like to get agitated, and he
rarely  got  drunk,  as  a  night’s  toping  made  him  feel  unwell  for  a  
long  time  after.  His  friends  were  sober
and  hard-working,  workmen  from  the  various  factories  through  which  he  
had  passed.  They  had  a  great
liking  for  him,  because  he  was  a  good  sort  and  even  more  because  
he  had  never  competed  with  any  of
them.

In his idleness the good idea occurred to him of taking on a voluntary job, 
which seemed at first neither
difficult  nor  onerous  —of  finding  his  sister  a  husband.  He  said  that 
 marriage  was  necessary  at  Lucia’s
age,  and  it  was  certain  that  if  no  one  bothered  to  help  her,  she  
would  never  find  a  husband  at  all.  He
asked his parents for permission to look around the homes of the young men he 
knew. His father at once
gave him permission, for Lucia’s marriage would mean to him the elimination of 
a mouth to feed at home.
Her mother on the other hand was opposed but could provide no objections as she 
did not dare tell him of
her  hopes  in  Alfonso.  She  chewed  her  nails  with  impatience  and  spoke 
 with  contempt  of  Gustavo’s
workmen friends.

“You  don’t  want  her  to  go  to  a  workman?”  asked  the  old  man  in  
surprise.  “Who  to,  then?  Are  you
waiting for a prince?”

It was many years since father and son had got on so well; they united together 
against the poor woman
who,  while  defending  herself  as  best  she  could,  cursed  Alfonso  in  
her  heart  for  not  having  yet  fallen  in
love with the only girl of his class he had been close to. Eventually she put 
up a good suggestion. Instead
of  Gustavo’s  friends,  workmen  and  worse,  why  not  draw  to  the  house  
Alfonso’s  friends,  who  were  bank
clerks and book-keepers!

“Those too!” said the old man approvingly. “But let’s have both so we’re more 
certain of reaching our


goal.”

He formally charged Gustavo to bring his friends, the richer the better, to the 
house.

Meanwhile, Signora Lanucci had occasion to bring up the subject with Alfonso 
and retained some hope
from  their  discussion.  If  the  poor  wretch,  as  she  called  him,  had  
betrayed  doubt,  disapproval  or  the
slightest hesitation, she would have found a way of saving Lucia from Gustavo’s 
friends.

Alfonso  had  got  into  the  habit  of  withdrawing  to  his  room  after  
lunch  in  order  not  to  have  to  listen  to
the Lanuccis’ empty chatter during the half-hour that he had before going to 
the office. One day Signora
Lanucci  followed  him  there.  On  seeing  her  Alfonso,  who  had  already  
sat  down  at  his  desk,  got  up,  and
they stood facing each other between desk and bed.

More  affectionate  than  she  had  been  to  him  for  a  long  time,  she  
said  that  as  they  were  now  used  to
considering  him  as  a  son,  she  was  asking  him  a  favour,  one  of  
those  favours  one  only  asks  of  intimate
friends.

“Yes, tell me!” Alfonso encouraged her kindly.

“I can’t just blurt it out but have to explain various things.”

She liked talking and, while Alfonso made an effort to listen, began telling 
him the story of her family,
which, she asserted, should have quite a different position from the one it 
occupied. It was impoverished
due to errors by her father, a disaster which she exaggerated by describing 
their former state as higher
than it had really been.

“And therefore,” the speech had been prepared and its opening and peroration 
was clearly put: “we just
cannot resign ourselves to this position, but if we agree to Lucia’s marrying a 
workman or some such”—
her disdain seemed to help establish more right to superiority—“it would pin us 
down once and for all.”
She  went  on  with  another  ‘therefore’,  while  Alfonso  had  by  now  lost  
interest  because  he  feared  to  find
himself  suddenly  attacked  with  an  offer  of  marriage.  She  guessed  this 
 from  his  embarrassed  air,  but
though  she  realized  that  it  was  really  fear  and  not  hope,  the  proof 
 did  not  seem  sufficient.  From  the
living-room came sounds of quarrelling between Gustavo and Lucia, and she took 
a step towards the door
to  separate  the  two  litigants  but  stopped,  not  wanting  to  leave  
Alfonso  with  any  suspicion  that  she  was
trying to get him by force. She asked him to bring home some young men, poor or 
not, but belonging to
an  intelligent  class.  So  intent  was  she  on  observing  Alfonso’s  
reaction  that  she  did  not  even  hear  the
sound of a slap which had certainly landed on Lucia’s cheek, for the latter 
showed herself its recipient by
her sobbing and shouting.

“So you want me to bring friends to the house, do you?” Alfonso asked gaily. 
“But why take such a long
way round to ask for such a simple thing? Aren’t I, as you yourself say, like a 
member of the family, and
oughtn’t I to do as much as I can to help each of you to achieve a little 
happiness? As soon as I can, I’ll
bring as many friends here as you like.”

He was not thinking of any of his friends in particular, but the offer had been 
made spontaneously, and
Signora Lanucci, though pained by his promptness, had to thank him. She would 
willingly have excused
him the task, but could not decently do so now. She tried at least to diminish 
his zeal:

“There’s no hurry. We’ve all the time we need to do things calmly.”

This  also  induced  the  old  woman  to  consent  to  Gustavo’s  plans  too;  
in  fact  she  was  soon  persuading
herself that her son’s action would bring about Lucia’s marriage at once.

“Now it’s up to you to do something,” she said to Gustavo, “and as soon as 
possible. That way we may
still manage to make someone die of rage.” This ‘someone’ was Alfonso.

Gustavo’s  friends  were  pretty  awful.  First  he  brought  along  a  hawker  
of  second-hand  books,  rich
though. Alfonso, not knowing that Gustavo had also been asked to do the same 
thing, did not realize this
man  to  be  a  candidate  for  Lucia’s  hand.  He  could  never  have  guessed 
 it.  The  candidate  was  about  fifty,
but looked even older as his skin was parchment-like from the sun and weather 
to which his job exposed
him. His eyes poured tears and not knowing that he was making a fiancé’s visit, 
he had omitted to shave
the white and yellowish hairs growing all over his cheeks.

When  he  left,  Signora  Lanucci  looked  laughing  at  her  husband  and  the 
 latter  smiled  too.  Gustavo  felt
offended and could not resist an urge to defend himself at once.

“He’s  full  of  money  though,”  he  said.  “One  never  knows  women’s  
tastes,  and  it  would  be  a  fine  bit  of
luck if Lucia took to him.”

The second friend whom Gustavo introduced to the family was the owner of a 
butcher’s shop. He was
well-to-do  and  younger  than  the  other  but  no  less  dirty.  He  had  
been  a  widower  for  some  time,  and
Gustavo thought he was looking for a wife. He was mistaken. The butcher drank 
too much of the wine on
the Lanuccis’ table, then beaming to show gratitude to his new friends 
exclaimed: “Ah, it’s good here! If
only one could always be with friends! Thank heavens, now that I’m a widower, I 
can allow myself that at
last!”

Signora  Lanucci  declared  that  she  did  not  want  to  see  him  again  and 
 even  asked  for  the  visits  of
Gustavo’s friends to stop. The young man defended himself.

“I can’t very well tell my friends to come home in order to make them marry my 
sister. I must choose
those who seem most suitable for marriage. A widower like the butcher, for 
example. He’s already been
married once!”

It seemed to Alfonso that the men presented next had been invited by Gustavo 
more in order to make a
show  of  having  respectable  friends  than  in  the  hope  of  seeing  them  
fall  in  love  with  his  sister.  One  of
these was Signor Rorli, a rich macaroni manufacturer from Naples. Gustavo had 
long announced his visit
and induced his mother to prepare a copious meal.

Signor  Rorli  did  not  come  the  first  evening  he  was  expected  and  
only  appeared  a  week  later  after


having twice more thrown the little family into confusion by warnings of his 
arrival. He was very young,
very thin, with a little pale moustache which just showed up against his dark 
skin. He was well dressed,
but over-richly, with rings on his fingers and a gold chain—which Gustavo said 
was worth three hundred
francs or more—on his chest. He seemed to enjoy himself. He explained how his 
macaroni was made, and
when asked to make old Lanucci a representative of his factory, refused, first 
telling him that they did not
work through agents and then that they already had four, two good arguments 
which naturally destroyed
all the old man’s hopes. He ate a lot, which gave Signora Lanucci a high 
opinion of his health, for she said
that thin people who eat a lot are strongest. This appetite of his consumed 
most of the supper, and when
Rorli asked  her  why  she  did  not  eat  more,  she  answered with  an  air  
of  great distinction:  “I  never  eat  at
night.”

He took no notice of anything else, as he took no notice of Lucia who was 
sitting next to him. He talked
most with Alfonso, whom Signora Lanucci had introduced as an employee of the 
Maller bank and a man
of letters. Grandeur aggrandizes the house it inhabits.

Rorli  now  began  chatting  of  literature,  and  of  course  of  French  
novels.  He  was  enthusiastic  about
Alexandre  Dumas  and  Paul  de  Kock,  whom  Alfonso  had  forgotten  ever  
admiring.  Alfonso  cut  the  worse
figure of the two, for after declaring he knew these writers he had been unable 
to show he had read all
their works, including some minor volumes which he heard named for the first 
time, while Rorli was able
to describe the whole of their plots to Signora Lanucci, who was enjoying 
herself thoroughly.

He  was  in  fact  a  great  chatterbox  and  admired  by  all  except  Alfonso 
 who,  though  realizing  the  man’s
ignorance,  was  impressed  by  his  skill  with  words.  Until  late  into  
the  night  he  heard  from  his  room  the
confabulations of the Lanuccis and the old woman declaring that she liked the 
manufacturer very much.
But Rorli did not appear again. Perhaps he had guessed what was in the air and, 
when invited by Gustavo,
excused himself, promised to come, and did not. But Gustavo had achieved a 
triumph of which he boasted
for a long time.

Alfonso, to look as if he was doing his part, one day brought Miceni with the 
excuse of showing him his
room. Used to greater ease and elegance, Miceni could not conceal his laughter 
before those bare walls,
that enormous iron bed, and the little bedside table with a short leg.

Signora  Lanucci  made  him  sit  down  in  the  living-room  and  introduced  
him  to  her  daughter,  whom  he
greeted  seated,  with  a  slight  nod  of  the  head  but  in  a  friendly  
manner,  used  as  he  was  to  dealing  with
seamstresses.

But  he  paid  her  compliments  and  chatted  away  about  things  women  
like.  He  even  admired  Lucia’s
dress and compared it to one he had seen worn by Signora Cancari, one of the 
richest ladies in town. He
was a lady-killer for whom every woman was desirable and the inspiring of 
desire always a pleasure.

“Shall  I  suggest  he  stays  on  to  supper?”  Signora  Lanucci  asked  
Alfonso  in  an  anguished  voice,  seeing
that the party was going on too long.

“Do invite him! He won’t accept.”

Signora Lanucci embarrassedly invited him, warning him at once that the supper 
was modest, but that
as there was enough to eat for five there would be enough for six.

Miceni refused with thanks and, realizing that the family was about to sit down 
to table, said goodbye.
He  went  off  accompanied  by  Alfonso,  who  was  impatient  to  know  what  
impression  Lucia  had  made  on
him. It was flattering, for he had been anything but indifferent.

On  the  dark  wooden  stairs  that  led  up  to  the  first  floor  Miceni  
leaned  confidentially  on  Alfonso’s  arm
and asked: “Have you had her?”

Alfonso protested indignantly.

“Now don’t get angry. If you’ve never really tried, that’s the only reason you 
haven’t succeeded, which
you must admit makes you even sillier than I thought you. A girl of that class, 
put close to a young man
who’s of better class, sooner or later throws herself at him, unless he shows 
he rejects her.”

It was impossible to be angry, and Alfonso ashamedly excused himself.
“She doesn’t attract me!”

“Really?” asked Miceni in surprise. “Then I can only deplore that your taste is 
not better developed.”

On his return the good comments about Miceni wasted by the Lanucci family made 
a painful impression
on  Alfonso.  Lucia  too  let  it  be  understood  that  she  had  quite  taken 
 to  him.  Alfonso  looked  at  her  to  see
whether  she  was  really  so  desirable  as  she  had  seemed  to  Miceni.  
Certainly  she  was  not  utterly  ugly.
Lounging on an armchair made her waist look trim, and her puffed starched skirt 
improved her thinness.

One  evening  in  April  Alfonso  left  Annetta’s  house  at  ten  o’clock  and 
 met  a  breath  of  winter,  a  wind
sharp as  an  arrow,  which had  risen  only  in  the  last hour  or  so.  It  
whistled round  the  deserted  streets  of
the  old  town  and  became  frenzied  where  they  narrowed.  It  fractured  
unfixed  tiles,  tore  from  roofs
everything that was not firmly held or did not belong there. Cold as Alfonso 
was he took with him through
the wind the happiness of a kiss stolen from Annetta.

He found the Lanucci family still at supper with a new guest, one Mario Gralli, 
overseer at a printers.
This was a dark young man with small eyes but a hard proud look which showed 
him to be quick-witted
and tenacious. He was introduced with the usual phrases, and Alfonso, 
ill-pleased at having to make the
acquaintance  of  the  whole  neighbourhood,  treated  him  coldly.  Gralli  
got  up  to  greet  Alfonso,  who  was
rather  surprised  to  find  him  shorter  than  he  had  expected.  He  was  
dressed  with  care  though  in  cheap
materials;  the  usual  yellowish  neckband  fitted  his  neck  closely,  and  
his  cravat,  though  threadbare,  was
not soiled and was knotted with a certain care.

He  spoke  little  and  evidently  unwillingly.  He  would  throw  a  
monosyllable  in  reply  here  and  there,
contenting himself by staring in the face of whomever spoke to him with a fixed 
but vague look. It was not


Alfonso’s  sort  of  embarrassment,  of  one  who  wanted  to  speak  but  did  
not  know  how,  but  calculated
indifference. He went off shortly after Alfonso’s arrival, perhaps bothered by 
a new face when he had just
begun     to feel at home with the others. On his getting up, Alfonso thought 
he saw him drop Lucia’s hand,
which he had been holding under the tablecloth. Had he got so far so soon?

Then he was told that Mario Gralli was the first real suitor for Lucia’s hand. 
For some time he had been
a close friend of Gustavo’s, to whom he would give jobs of distributing 
newspapers, which Gustavo liked
because of the five or six hours he spent in the printers, only one or two of 
which were work. Having so
many  hours  for  talking  and  nothing  else  to  talk  about,  Gustavo  spoke 
 of  his  plans  for  his  sister’s  future
and  of  the  wish  in  the  family  to  see  her  married  as  soon  as  
possible.  One  day  Lucia  was  invited  by  her
brother to the printers to look at the machinery. She was dressed well as 
always, and Gralli seemed taken
at  once.  He  took  her  to  see  every  machine.  As  they  passed  the  
workmen  rose  respectfully  to  their  feet;
what Mario liked most about Lucia so far was her appearance, while she liked to 
see him surrounded with
such respect. So it was that the two found each other.

Gralli  earned  well  and,  as  the  girl  was  pleased,  her  parents  could  
find  no  objection.  Anyway,  they  had
not been asked, because Gralli had declared to Gustavo that he could not 
formulate his request officially
so  soon,  not  within  a  year.  He  never  in  fact  talked  directly  to  
the  parents  at  all,  but  always  through
Gustavo.  He  got  him  to  explain  to  them  that  his  position  was  not  
yet  secure  enough  because  he  had
obtained  it  as  a  result  of  the  sudden  death  of  a  superior,  and  he  
did  not  know  if  it  would  be  confirmed.
Gustavo  added  on  his  own  the  observation  that  it  did  not  seem  
decent  to  insist  on  Mario  making  his
request at once.

All this was described to Alfonso by Signora Lanucci. That same evening, with a 
jolly air, she told him
how  pleased  they  were  with  the  match  as  she  had  always  loved  
literature  and  a  printer  seemed  to  her
very close to it. She went up to him again in the morning, as he was about to 
leave. At first, with the same
air as the night before, and like a person with really happy news she said:

“It means some light for us at last.”

Suddenly  she  changed.  She  spoke  of  the  great  care  needed  about  such  
a  matter  and,  once  she  began
complaining,  went  on  to  say  that  she  did  not  like  having  to  trust  
herself  to  Gustavo’s  solutions  and
judgement. Eventually she began to sob desperately, declaring that she never 
thought she would have to
hand over her daughter to someone she did not know. She had spent a bad night, 
and her pale features
were discomposed; tumbled white hair increased her suffering air.

Alfonso tried to calm her by saying that Gralli had made an excellent 
impression on him.

Still weeping, she assured him that she liked Lucia’s future husband too, and 
added that she knew she
was wrong to cry, as crying was a bad omen. But she was suffering too much and 
must confess the hopes
she  had  nurtured  in  him  since  his  entering  their  home;  she  could  
tell  him  now  because  her  confidence
could  not  possibly  be  taken  for  an  attempt.  Her  sincerity  surprised  
Alfonso.  But  she  lied,  Alfonso
suspected, when she went on to say that Lucia had known nothing of her hopes. 
With touching sincerity
she explained the reasons why she had hoped to see him fall in love with Lucia.

“I knew you. I’d have felt sure that even if things went badly with you both, 
you yourself would always
have  found  patience  enough  to  treat  your  wife  gently.  And  when  there 
 are  two,  I  figured,  one  is  never
really unhappy!”

Alfonso  was  not  embarrassed  about  his  attitude.  More  than  once  he  
had  felt  a  desire,  a  very  platonic
desire, to make this poor old woman happy, and now he thought it right to 
pretend that he was sorry to be
no longer able to do what he would not have done anyway.

“A  lovely  dream,  yes,  indeed!”  said  Alfonso,  “but  it  could  never  
have  been  realized  as  my  position  is
even more wretched and uncertain than Gralli’s. I’m penniless.”

When he was alone, he thought of Signora Lanucci’s sorrow. Amid her misfortunes 
the poor woman had
pinned all her hopes on her daughter’s future, and this had made her meeker and 
happier. Now her hopes
were  dying.  Her  daughter  was  to  have  the  same  destiny  as  herself.  
She  would  be  surrounded  by  a
poverty-stricken family in no way better off than the one she was leaving.

“Signorina,” said Alfonso seriously to Lucia that evening, “I want to be the 
first to congratulate you, and
do so at once.”

Lucia thanked him ceremoniously.

“There’s  nothing  to  congratulate  me  on  yet,  as  Mario  hasn’t  made  his 
 request  officially”—she  was
already calling him by his Christian name—“but from you I can accept 
congratulations beforehand.”

In the evening Alfonso fell asleep unusually early, after enduring for two 
hours the mortal boredom of
the Lanuccis and of Gralli’s company. It pained him to see the future husband 
so lacking in wit or ideas;
but he realized that the mother suffered this too, and he realized that Lucia 
did not notice and liked her
future husband as he was, dignifiedly silent.

Alfonso  drew  the  coverlet  up  to  his  chin  and  at  the  conclusion  of  
a  long  reflection  on  human  destiny
murmured: “Man should be able to live twice; once for himself and once for 
others.”

If he’d had two lives, he thought, he would dedicate one to the Lanuccis’ 
happiness.


XIV

O

NE EVENING  Annetta  announced  to  Alfonso  that  her  brother  Federico  was  
to  arrive  a  few  days  later.
She  was  warning  him  beforehand  so  that  he  should  be  ready  to  behave 
 as  prudently  as  possible.
Federico was devoted to her and while he was in town would be unlikely ever to 
leave her side. So Alfonso
was   to be very careful, because to arouse the slightest suspicion in Federico 
would mean their having to

stop seeing each other.

Alfonso promised all that she asked him. That evening she had allowed him much, 
and he wanted to be
equally  yielding;  he  even  asked  if  she  would  prefer  him  to  suspend  
his  visits  during  that  time  and
declared  himself  ready  to  agree.  She  did  not  ask  as  much  as  that,  
because  such  a  sudden  interruption
might itself arouse suspicions. She did not find it necessary to say that she 
would be sorry not to see him
all that time.

In a way Alfonso and Annetta’s relations had become less affectionate. She had 
never told him that she
loved him. He had let himself say so, but even he no longer felt a need to 
repeat it, nor did she notice the
lack.  It  seemed  because  of  this  that  their  bearing  had  become  more  
frank  and  that  they  were  in  a  tacit
agreement  which  did  not  really  exist—for  Alfonso  was  still  hoping  for 
 something  else  and  had  realized,
regretfully, that the road he was taking could lead to the conquest of a 
concubine but not of a mistress or
a wife.

In other people’s presence he had the air of a suitor, shooting glances, paying 
compliments or asking to
be  alone  with  her  for  a  second  to  say  a  word.  When  they  were  
alone  at  last,  she  would  tell  him  with  a
smile  that  he  sometimes  thought  faintly  ironical,  that  he  could  
speak.  Without  opening  his  mouth  he
would draw her to him and kiss her frantically. She defended herself at a 
certain point, but with the calm
energy of self-confidence. After Alfonso became more prudent in the presence of 
those whose suspicions
Annetta  feared,  they  never  had  a  dispute.  She  almost  seemed  readier  
to  become  his  mistress  than  his
wife; his behaviour angered her in public, not when they were alone.

When  Alfonso  was  told  in  the  office  of  Federico’s  arrival,  the  news  
produced  a  strange  impression  of
alarm in him. Gradually he had won the friendship of all those who frequented 
the Mallers. It had been a
slow  and  difficult  conquest  which  seemed  to  have  succeeded  mainly  by  
luck,  by  Macario’s  gift  of  his
esteem,  rather  than  by  the  respect  accorded  him  by  that  little  
ignoramus  Annetta.  Now  someone  new
intervened, a person used to making decisions according to unknown criteria. He 
was to be feared since
Annetta  feared  him  on  Alfonso’s  account.  Federico  was  certainly  a  man 
 of  ambition  who  would  start  by
despising him.

That evening he did not go to Annetta’s; he did not want to show himself too 
soon. By next evening it
seemed  a  century  since  he  had  seen  her,  and,  ingenuously  thinking  
that  it  must  seem  so  to  others,  he
went to call at the Mallers.

He  found  only  Francesca  and  made  a  face,  as  if  finding  a  liquid  
bitter  after  swallowing  it.  Francesca
understood.

“For just one evening,” she said to him with a smile, “you must put up with 
talking to me about Annetta.
She’s  had  to  go  out  with  Signor  Federico.  Now  listen!  Tell  me  
something  about  your  relations  with
Annetta.”  She  waited  in  silence  for  him  to  talk,  while  he  remained  
silent,  surprised  by  the  strange
preamble which Francesca seemed to be hoping would draw confidences from him.

“I thought you’d like to talk about Annetta, and you can with me, since, as I 
hope you’ve realized, I’m
her  confidante.”  She  tried  to  give  him  a  proof  of  her  knowing  all.  
“But  never  do  that  on  the  landing
again!”  she  said  with  a  laugh,  threatening  with  her  white  hand,  the  
best  feature  of  her  body.  She  was
alluding to the embrace which long ago Alfonso had stolen from Annetta on the 
landing.

This  proof  that  she  had  given  was  enough,  particularly  because  he  
felt  a  strong  need  to  talk  about
Annetta  and  to  complain  about  her.  So  he  said  that  he  was  not  at  
all  satisfied  about  his  relations  with
Annetta, as Francesca called them: Annetta was not as he had hoped.

“You’ve really no reason for complaining,” observed Francesca in a tone which 
sounded to him ironical.
“You don’t seem to appreciate your good luck as much as you should.”

He did appreciate his good luck as he should, but it did not seem to him very 
great. He asked Francesca
to tell him the exact terms in which love had been spoken, on that occasion at 
least. Francesca asserted
that she could not remember and so could not do as he asked.

“You know,” inquired Alfonso very seriously, “that she’s never told me she 
loved me? I really don’t know
if Annetta loves or despises me.”

Francesca  seemed  about  to  laugh  at  Alfonso’s  confidence,  then  became  
very  serious  and  let  drop  a
thought spoken out loud: “All the Mallers are like that. Coldness is a family 
characteristic.”

Alfonso did not forget this phrase, which seemed to him a confirmation of the 
rumours about Francesca
and her relations with Maller. Who else in the family could she have known to 
be cold in love?

“But this much is certain,” went on Francesca, “Annetta is not making fun of 
you, and I can say that I’ve
never seen her as she is now.” Then she at once changed the subject, apparently 
wanting Alfonso too to
consider her as a kind of attentive governess. “If I don’t tell Maller all 
about it, as is my duty, it’s because
I trust your and Annetta’s honesty of character.” But she warned him not to 
flatter himself too much about
Annetta’s love which, she hinted, could suddenly die. It was the first love 
affair of the kind she had had,
but its conclusion could be foreseen, and again Alfonso thought he noticed 
something bitter in her smile.

“I never flatter myself nowadays, I know it’s only a joke.” He was playing the 
strong man, but speaking


with difficulty.

Francesca exclaimed with maternal compassion: “Is this not a moment for you to 
return home? Haven’t
you realized yet that this city is not for you?”

“Why?” asked Alfonso, touched at this sympathy.

“If you don’t understand, I can’t explain. I’d willingly live in the country 
too, and would give much, oh
so much, never to have left your village, which is our village, isn’t it?”

They looked at each other with sudden tenderness. The similarity of their fates 
drew them together and
stirred them.

Francesca  said  she  wanted  to  give  him  some  advice  and  asked  him  to  
listen  to  it  and  follow  it  as  if  it
came from his mother. This preamble made Alfonso very hopeful, and he was 
greatly disappointed when
she merely said that she could not understand why he went on worrying his head 
about Annetta, when he
was bound to recognize in the end that it took quite other arts than his to 
infuse life and passion into such
a statue. She advised him to behave exactly as Annetta asked him to, coldly.

Was  this  her  great  piece  of  advice?  It  was  advice  already  given  by  
Annetta  herself  though  not  in  the
same words; and he presumed it was being repeated by her desire. Perhaps 
Francesca took her duties as
chaperone more seriously than he had previously recognized, and was telling him 
this in order to lessen
the danger threatening Annetta.

As  they  were  saying  goodbye,  Francesca’s  language  changed  and  she  
said  two  or  three  short  phrases
whose importance he did not at once understand.

“Can’t you see that caresses not followed up destroy all influence over us 
women of the men who give
them? All that kissing! Just the way to get no further!”

She gave him a searching look to see if he had understood, and winking to 
explain what she had said,
she smiled—an accomplice’s smile.

This  was  her  advice!  Alfonso  had  not  understood  it  yet  but  already  
realized  that  his  suppositions  of
Francesca’s intentions were mistaken. This amazed him. Perhaps these last 
phrases had been pronounced
thoughtlessly,  but  it  was  more  likely  that  all  the  other  phrases  had 
 been  said  to  mask  these  same  ideas
and to give the impression of a person only making a mistake in language. That 
aspect had been betrayed
by  her  diffident  searching  glance  and  by  her  sly  smile.  Alfonso  had  
been  given  some  advice,  and  its
purpose was obviously not to draw him away from Annetta but to show him a way 
of winning her.

He was not being advised to do something entirely new to him; and this reminded 
him of the pretence
of coldness which Annetta had wanted to give the hero of their novel, which she 
said would conquer their
heroine’s  hesitations.  It  was  just  the  sort  of  coldness  suggested  by  
Francesca.  The  advice  was  good.  It
would be pleasant to follow it because, even if it did not lead him to the 
victory foreseen by Francesca, he
did  at  least  hope  to  achieve  what  he  wanted,  the  conquest  of  
Annetta’s  affections.  At  once  he  began
hoping to achieve more by the behaviour suggested than by the aggressive one he 
had followed so far. For
a long time the pleasure of being able to hug and kiss Annetta had not compared 
to the bitterness of her
brusque  word  or  cold  greeting.  The  mere  intention  of  his  assuming  
such  a  bearing  reduced  his  nervous
tension  and  released  him  from  the  daily  struggle  in  which  he  had  
been  engaged  for  a  year,  a  struggle
always with the same result, neither victory nor definite defeat.

It was a long time before he could put his intention into action.

He was introduced to Federico Maller. He had already seen him at other times 
and from a distance, in
the street, and thought him a handsome and elegant young man. Fair, tall, slim, 
with a thin oval face and
big,  gentle,  intensely  blue  eyes,  his  appearance  was  aristocratic  and  
slightly  effeminate.  From  close  up,
on the other hand, his eyes lost their gentleness because they were restless 
and set in dark, parchment-
like  skin;  wrinkles  seemed  already  forming  on  the  youthful  face,  its  
feminine  aspect  now  not  unlike  a
virago’s. Thin hair was carefully arranged to seem thicker.

Alfonso’s  disillusion  was  increased  by  the  brusque  way  Federico  
treated  him.  After  being  introduced
Federico  asked  if  he  was  happy  working  at  his  father’s  and,  
expecting  a  eulogy  of  the  Maller  bank,  was
not   too  pleased  at  Alfonso’s  stuttered  reply.  Alfonso,  realizing  he  
had  already  made  a  blunder,  became
speechless, and because of Federico that evening was very like his first 
evening at the Mallers.

On his way out he met Annetta in the passage.

“I’m very pleased with you,” she said, with a warm handshake. She wanted to 
reward him for his quiet
bearing, which she thought must be due to her instructions. He tried to draw 
her to him, but she escaped
with   a   cry   of   alarm   and   from   a   position   of   safety   
threatened   him   with   a   hand,   saying:   “You’re
incorrigible!”

He went off feeling upset at not having shown ease with Federico and strength 
of will with Annetta. She
had her own reasons to be pleased with him, and those had prevented her 
noticing how awkward he had
been  that  evening.  As  for  the  mistake  with  Federico  he  soothed  
himself  by  thinking  it  was  not  of  much
importance.  Before  meeting  him  he  had  often  thought  of  those  
aristocratic  features  and  imagined  them
intervening decisively in his favour. Now he realized that none of the Mallers 
would take a step towards
him        of their own accord; so he turned to considering Francesca’s plan 
more keenly.

It  was  difficult  to  show  more  coldness  than  Annetta  required  of  him  
during  Federico’s  stay  in  town.
When they were alone, there was not time for Alfonso to screw himself up to a 
pretence of coldness, and a
look or a sweet word immediately led him to advances which he would later 
regret.

In  compensation  Alfonso  had  no  reason  to  complain  of  Federico,  who  
after  that  first  evening  treated
him with aristocratic hauteur, but not brusquely. Shortly after his arrival 
Annetta asked Alfonso to make
her  brother  think  they  had  stopped  work  on  the  novel.  It  had  been  
mentioned  to  Federico,  and  he  had
apparently shown no pleasure at their collaboration.


One  evening  with  a  smile  intended  to  be  friendly  he  asked  Alfonso:  
“And  why  isn’t  that  novel  finished
yet?”

“It’s  not  my  fault.  One  fine  day  Signorina  Annetta  took  a  dislike  
to  the  plot  and  dropped  it  all.  Maybe
she will start again one day.”

Federico spoke against collaboration. A book could not be well-done by two, and 
even if it did turn out
to be good, that would be a sign that each of the two collaborators could do 
better, separately.

Alfonso did not feel up to sustaining a discussion.

“It all depends on cases and temperaments, I think,” he said modestly.

The  two  never  became  friendly.  Alfonso  felt  particularly  irritated  by  
the  way  Federico  never  listened
and  only  took  an  interest  in  what  concerned  his  own  small  self  or  
might  show  it  in  a  better  light.  It
occurred  to  him  that  even  this  aristocratic  personage  must  be  little  
used  to  society  and  its  influence,  to
accepting its yoke, for the first result of constantly rubbing shoulders with 
equals, particularly if they are
intelligent,  is  learning  to  put  up  with  the  boring  ideas  of  others.  
This  defect  of  Federico’s  was  alone
enough to divide the two men, for Alfonso, due to his literary ambitions, 
expected to be listened to with
attention at times. He suspected that Federico only behaved like that in his 
company, from contempt.

Even after recognizing that there was no possibility of making friends with 
Federico, from time to time
he made attempts, resulting only in disappointment. On the last evening spent 
by Alfonso with Annetta’s
brother, in his joy at seeing him depart, he put himself out to be courteous 
and said sweetly as he shook
hands: “Au revoir, Signor Federico!”

Federico  gave  him  a  look  of  impertinent  surprise,  not  at  all  
flattered  by  any  courtesy  from  one  of  his
father’s clerks. Then he bowed politely back but only said, “Good night,” which 
was too little not to seem
rude in reply to Alfonso’s friendly remark.

Even  after  Federico’s  departure  Alfonso  could  not  act  as  coldly  
towards  Annetta  as  he  intended.  Left
free again, alone with her, he felt so pleased at returning to their former 
relations that he was unable to
renounce that happiness voluntarily. A warning hint by Francesca was not enough 
to fortify his resolution.
She  must  have  been  much  put  out  at  seeing  him  unchanged,  for  one  
day  when  he  could  not  guess  the
answer to a puzzle she said: “You’re less intelligent than I thought.”

She  smiled  at  him  to  soften  her  insolence;  but  her  voice  was  
trembling  with  anger  or  impatience,
something  violent,  scarcely  restrained,  so  that  he  realized  her  real  
meaning  to  be  quite  apart  from  the
puzzle.  A  short  time  before  she  had  surprised  him  very  close  to  
Annetta,  scarlet  in  the  face  while
Annetta’s  was  rosy  and  calm;  at  the  time  he  remembered  thinking  that 
 Francesca  would  object  to  his
attitude. He blushed and felt ashamed.

Francesca’s  insistence  on  reminding  him  of  her  advice  eventually  made  
him  fear  her  as  if  she  had  a
right  to  reprove  him.  He  avoided  her,  and  from  weakness,  not  on  
purpose,  in  front  of  her,  did  treat
Annetta  coldly  as  if  to  make  Francesca  believe  he  had  finally  taken  
her  advice.  But  Francesca  had
considerable powers of observation, and the disdain did not leave her pale 
face.

When, however, he did happen by chance to adopt her system, she was the first 
to notice, even before
Annetta  herself,  and  by  her  expression  showed  Alfonso  her  approval  
when  he  did  not  even  know  he
deserved it.

Alfonso,  grinding  his  teeth  with  rage,  had  sworn  revenge  on  Annetta  
for  some  offensive  remark.  One
evening  she  had  been  colder  to  him  than  usual,  concentrating  only  on 
 Macario,  who  had  been  making
some quite successful jokes, and she’d taken no notice of him at all, which was 
enough to arouse jealousy
in his lover’s heart; he made some excuse to stay even after Macario left, 
though Annetta always insisted
on his being very careful in front of Macario. As soon as he was alone with 
her, he tried to pull her to him,
but she resisted firmly and said contemptuously: “All this constant kissing’s a 
bore.”

It was a very offensive phrase. By it Annetta laid bare the ridiculous side of 
their relationship, which he
had already felt, and was withdrawing from it, leaving all its weight on his 
shoulders. Thus he was faced
with someone who could mock him, Annetta herself.

It was then that he decided to follow Francesca’s advice, firstly for revenge. 
He wanted to cram those
words  down  Annetta’s  throat  and  show  her  that  if  there  was  anything  
ridiculous  in  their  relationship,  it
was not his fault alone. Oh, he was convinced she needed him, needed their 
relationship, and in the very
form  she  had  wanted  to  deride.  Obviously  Francesca  was  of  his  
opinion  too.  This  gave  him  great
confidence; without her approval, though convinced himself, he would never have 
had the confidence or
resolution necessary to act.

Then, once set on his line of  action, he felt all right. His anger had soon 
vanished, but he  kept up the
bearing  Francesca  had  dictated.  Annetta,  on  noticing  the  effect  
produced  by  her  words,  had  at  once
become  sweet  and  was  trying,  he  thought,  to  make  him  forget  them.  
The  first  evening  she  had  no
surprises. He was as she had wanted him to be; and when he went off with a cold 
shake of her hand, she
merely  gave  an  ironical  smile.  She  did  not  consider  that  the  lesson  
she  had  given  him  would  serve  for
long, and wanted him to think, or thought herself, that she was the first to 
hope she was wrong. He had
been pleasant with some difficulty; it was not easy for him to recapture that 
tone of friendly courtesy with
Annetta which he had long ago exchanged for one of passion, put on with an 
effort when it did not come
spontaneously.

Very  soon  he  ran  into  greater  difficulties.  To  pursue  his  act  he  
needed  to  find  some  subject  of
conversation  which  would  take  him  through  an  evening  in  Annetta’s  
company  without  her  feeling bored
or  his  showing  if—as  he  was  resigned  to  being—he  was  bored  himself.  
Till  then  he  had  relied  on  little
snares laid for Annetta to fill up all the time; the nervous tension they 
produced excluded boredom. They
had  stopped  work  on  the  novel  for  a  long  time,  and  what  they  had  
told  Federico  only  remained  a  lie


because,  on  being  alone  together  again,  Annetta  never  omitted  to  lay  
out  writing  materials.  Between
them they always went on putting up a show of intending to continue the work.

“Shall we get to work?” he asked Annetta.

She  approved,  but  as  he  wanted  to  begin  writing  at  once  she  had  to 
 look  for  a  pen.  Their  show  of
wanting  to  work  needed  paper  and  ink  only,  not  pens.  He  flung  
himself  with  great  zeal  into  the  novel
because he longed to distract himself by other ideas and not have to feign 
indifference. Once again they
got  a  little  done;  further  progress  would  have  meant  their  re-reading 
 the  whole  novel,  some  parts  of
which they had forgotten. It was so new for Alfonso to be alone with her, and 
close, without threatening to
pounce,  that  Annetta  mistook  one  of  his  movements  for  an  attack,  and 
 having  made  to  defend  herself,
blushed  on  finding  it  was  a  false  alarm.  He  realized  her  
embarrassment,  and  that  time  had  to  make  a
tremendous effort not to help her out of a humiliation which he felt as if it 
were his own. But he resisted,
and all that evening Annetta remained embarrassed, less at ease than usual; 
Francesca, who sat down at
her usual loom shortly afterwards, gave a slight smile of satisfaction meant to 
be seen by Alfonso.

Instead  of  wasting  time  uselessly  re-reading  the  novel,  Alfonso  
suggested,  and  Annetta  agreed,  that
they  should  correct  it  together,  examine  it  word  by  word  and  then  
just  bring  it  to  a  close.  It  was  boring
work, but less dangerous for the literary relationship between the two 
collaborators because neither had
a  very  developed  sense  of  language,  and  Alfonso,  though  he  would  
have  preferred  it  to  be  slightly  more
sober, easily adapted himself to Annetta’s taste; having already made other 
concessions to it he realized
that a book with such a plot could only be dressed up in clothes of the same 
showy melodramatic taste.

Annetta must have given a good deal of thought to Alfonso’s unusual bearing, 
for the next evening he
found her calm and serene, still friendly, with a certain air of smiling 
superiority which rather suited her.
Anyone seeing them together then would have said they had come to a tacit 
agreement to be good friends
and  nothing  more,  and  even  that  Alfonso  had  become  timid.  Ah!  
Actually  he  was  already  in  a  torture  of
despair, regretting those evenings before the advice to be restrained. It was a 
bad sign that she bore him
no  grudge.  He  had  not  hoped  to  hear  reproof,  but  nor  had  he  
thought  that  she  could  show  such
indifference  so soon.  The  only  thing that  still made  him  doubt the  
sincerity of  her coldness  was the  fact
that  she  never  gave  him  a  word  of  praise  for  his  finally  behaving  
as  she  said  she  wished.  Praise  for  his
behaviour  was  due  to  him,  and  she  showed  a  lack  of  her  vaunted  
cold  reasoning  by  not  having  given  it.
She  never  mentioned  Alfonso’s  new  bearing  but  tried  to  show  she  had  
not  noticed  it;  and  it  was  this
silence which induced Alfonso to persevere.

One  evening,  a  week  later,  she  accompanied  him  as  far  as  the  
living-room  door  and  then  hurriedly
withdrew  with  a  ceremonious  little  bow.  He  had  behaved  badly.  Already 
 cold  and  tired  for  lack  of
stimulus, he had not bothered to lavish on Annetta the many other attentions 
which he realized he should
if       he were not to alienate her completely. He had omitted to show himself 
in love. His part, as he had said
from the very beginning—and it had only been from inertia that he had not made 
better use of it—his part
should  always  be  that  of  a  sensible  lover  contented  with  a  look  or  
a  handshake,  yes  always  obviously  in
love.

He  felt  very  troubled  until  he  saw  her  again.  He  feared  her  giving  
him,  in  some  form  or  other,  as  a
result of his daring, the dismissal of which he had once been afraid. Not 
having had it then for that reason
he  might  possibly  be  given  it  now  for  this.  He  felt  himself  to  be  
in  a  bad  state,  and  in  his  mind  blamed
Francesca and her advice. He thought of going to Annetta and asking her 
forgiveness by telling her why
he had assumed that bearing. He did not feel to blame for it and would convince 
her that he was not; he
might even make her sweeter and more yielding by telling her that he had merely 
imitated the restraint of
their own hero. It was an easy excuse and a way of gathering fruit from the 
coldness forced on himself for
those last few days.

He understood from Annetta’s reserved but friendly manner that the danger he 
feared was more distant
than he thought, and her reserve made him pursue in spite of himself, from 
timidity, the attitude he had
decided to drop. He spent a very pleasant evening. As always he only had to 
shed his uncertainty or fear
for  the  sight  of  Annetta  to  be  an  immense  happiness.  The  happiness  
of  the  evening  staved  off  his
agitation,  always  ready  as  he  was  to  fling  his  arms  round  Annetta’s  
neck  and  return  to  that  slavish
position  which  had  so  many  joys  to  offer.  It  took  no  effort  to  
remember  that  Annetta  always  needed
courting. He loved her, at least for that evening, as he had not loved her 
since the day when he had dared
to    kiss her for the first time on the lips. Such trepidations increase 
desire. He spoke better than usual and
hazarded allusions to his love as if he had not already made his declaration at 
other times. He found he
had  leapt  back  again  into  a  freshness  of  impression  as  to  something  
entirely  new,  and  Annetta  listened
and smiled. Never had she seemed so yielding. At other times she had let 
herself be embraced while now
she accorded only words and looks, but before, when conceding these, she had 
always seemed to regret
her own incapacity to resist, while now she gave promptly what was asked and 
more.

Of  course  he  was  at  once  reconciled  to  Francesca’s  advice  and  
regained  the  energy  he  had  after
Annetta  had  taken  offence.  Holding  an  internal  monologue,  as  always  
when  agitated,  he  told  himself
happily  that  in  his  able  hands  Annetta  was  becoming  soft  wax  which  
he  could  mould  as  he  liked.  At  the
thought he moved his fingers as if he had the wax in his hands.

Annetta still had her air of superiority and that frankness of speech which at 
times sounded imperious.
Actually this superiority no longer existed, and the difference in her bearing 
now showed visibly in front
of people; he was always the one to whom she paid the most notice. Even in such 
discussions as they still
had on the novel he was always victorious, though he cared little about it.

He  did  not  know  whether  from  these  changes  he  could  nourish  any  
great  hopes  of  bringing  their
relationship back to the point it had reached before—this time with Annetta’s 
explicit consent. From one


day to another he put off that step which he would have to take sooner or later 
and which would definitely
yield immediate results—but a week later he was no longer thinking of taking it 
because he felt all right
as he was. He had hoped to speak words of love, but to ask for them would have 
been silly and equivalent
to a retreat.

They spent whole hours side by side, never talking of love, yet both their 
voices and their ways were as
sweet  as  if  they  had  been.  She  would  even  interrupt  sentences  she  
had  begun,  because  she  cared  little
about finishing them, and he had little curiosity to hear them now that he 
realized she really had nothing
to say to him. Eventually she found herself in the state of mind in which he 
had been so often himself. She
loved or at least desired him.

Often,  very  often  since  intervening  as  adviser,  Francesca  was  present  
at  their  meetings,  and  this  was
the main reason for the two lovers remaining at an impasse.

In his happiness  he  wanted  to show  his gratitude  to her, to  whom  he  
thought this  happiness was  due.
He  forgot  the  way  in  which  the  advice  had  been  given,  and  with  the 
 frankness  of  one  carrying  out  a
dutiful action, he said to Francesca as he shook her hand: “Thank you, thank 
you.”

“What  for?”  asked  Francesca  disdainfully.  Then  when  he  withdrew  in  
alarm,  thinking  that  Francesca
was annoyed because she took those thanks as an accusation of a complicity 
which she had not wanted to
admit, she burst out: “If you will twitter away like sparrows, it’s not my 
fault!”

Once again she was discontented with him and thought he had not understood her 
advice properly. This
annoyed him because he did not feel like laying any traps for Annetta for the 
moment. He said to himself
that Francesca was mistaken in thinking that he would dare anything new to 
please her when he felt so
content as he was. In a matter of such importance he wanted to hold his own 
opinion.

His own opinion? Later on he would not dare assert that things took the turn 
they did by his own wish.

The fact is that his coldness, calculated to provoke Annetta, had rebounded on 
himself. His senses had
been  agitated  by  promises  never  kept  but  repeated  at  each  of  their  
meetings.  Before,  in  his  attempts  to
steal a caress or a kiss, his mind had been kept in constant activity towards 
achieving this aim, and once
this aim was reached, his senses were soothed to a satisfaction that, though 
relative, was what they had
sought. Now on the other hand he lacked both activity and satisfaction, and in 
his inertia he analysed his
own desires and made them more acute. These, of course, had become stronger for 
other reasons too. He
believed now that Annetta felt the same desires as himself, and when he thought 
that only will and daring
was needed for their two desires to meet, the idea of such happiness being so 
near made his head spin.
His  dreams  were  taking  on  more  and  more  reality.  He  knew  or  thought 
 he  knew  Annetta’s  look  or  the
sound  of  her  voice  when  moved  by  love  for  him.  One  evening  he  
tried  to  pull  her  to  him  with  a  rough
gesture. She escaped from his embrace with a cry of alarm. Why her sudden 
alarm? Did she know what
he wanted before he did himself?

When  Francesca  was  present,  Alfonso  talked  a  lot  about  matters  
indifferent  to  him.  Annetta,  he
realized,  was  following  the  sound  of  his  voice  with  real  vivacity;  
Macario  thought  her  incapable  of  that,
and here she was showing it to Alfonso. But this sensation did not seem linked 
to his actual words.

And  yet,  though  he  was  acting  with  a  morbid  sense  of  exaltation  
which  made  him  live  in  a  continual
dream for days on end, he was calculating coldly, as someone conscious of what 
he wanted.

He waited impatiently for Francesca to go away, but her leaving the library was 
not enough; she must
be  outside  the  house.  She  was  the  only  person  who  could  disturb  
him,  and  he  wanted  to  feel  reassured
about  her.  He  controlled  himself  for  one  or  two  evenings  and,  hot  
with  impatience,  observed  every
movement of Francesca’s as she left the room frequently only to return at once. 
She was behind all this,
he  thought  afterwards.  Finding  him  incapable  of  being  cold  as  she  
had  advised,  she  was  forcing  him  to
keep within certain limits by her continual presence, and the behaviour thus 
imposed on him had already
been enough to take him where she wanted.

One  evening  he  appeared  unexpectedly.  Annetta  and  he  had  arranged  not 
 to  see  each  other  that  day,
but after a long struggle he had been unable to stay away. The two women had 
said they wanted to go out
if  the  weather  was  good,  and  now  it  had  been  overcast  for  some  
hours,  so  they  had  probably  given  up
their outing.

On the stairs he met Francesca going out alone. She greeted him more politely 
than usual and, looking
him in the eyes with that scrutinizing gaze when she deigned to pause, said 
that she was surprised to see
him and then, with an air of frankness, asked if Annetta had invited him when 
they had been left alone the
evening  before.  The  unexpected  question  embarrassed  Alfonso,  and  he  
could  think  of  no  better  way  out
than to pretend he could not remember arranging with Annetta for them not to 
see each other that day.
So he let her think that Annetta had given him an appointment without 
Francesca’s knowledge.

“Annetta’s  waiting  for  you  in  the  library,”  said  Francesca,  more  
dryly  after  learning  what  she  wanted,
and went on down the stairs. “I’ll be back in half-an-hour,” she said again.

Alfonso’s legs trembled as he went on up. Would he pluck up the courage within 
half-an-hour to do what
he intended? The action itself agitated him less than the thought of 
compressing it into so short a time.

“Alone at last!” he said, and as soon as he entered, he drew her towards him, 
but not violently, rather as
if he wanted to shake hands.

She dropped her head on his chest and, in rebuke for the position he’d put her 
into, said seriously but
in a voice too calm and steady to be natural, “We were alone quite recently.”

“Forgive me,” stuttered Alfonso. He did not want to be more agitated and kissed 
her gently on the eyes,
calculating how far this abandon of hers could take him.

The library was lit only by an oil-lamp on the table, and its light, enclosed 
in its shade, projected itself
in  a  wide  halo  on  the  green  tablecloth  and  in  a  strip  of  light  
running  towards  the  floor.  The  austerity  of


that  room  made  it  a  good  place  for  love,  amid  simple  black  
cupboards  and  serious  books  with  broad
spines  and  gold  lettering.  The  contradiction  spurred  on  Alfonso’s  
desire.  Some  large  roughly  bound
volumes, perhaps collections of newspapers, piled up in a corner, were 
emanating a strong smell of glue.

Holding her by the hand he drew her out of the light. Seeing him so calm she 
had no suspicions and sat
down  next  to  him  on  the  ottoman.  They  had  been  like  that  at  other  
times,  sitting  next  to  each  other  or
embracing in the same place. He felt a regret that she was sitting by chance 
where the sofa had no back.
But   still he was uncertain. He pressed her backwards, hugging her tightly. He 
wanted to find out how she
would resist and seemed to be asking a timid but clear question; if Annetta did 
not react, he could then
refer to that question as an excuse. From cowardice he also murmured, “May I 
…?” but so faintly that he
could  not  know  if  she  had  heard.  It  was  this  that  warned  Annetta  
of  her  danger.  She  begged  and
threatened him but in gentle tones, and defended herself with arms so loosely 
crossed on her breast that
they  prevented  nothing.  But  he  had  expected  no  resistance  at  all,  
and,  weak  as  it  was,  it  annoyed  him.
Brusquely, hurriedly, brutally, he forced her into what seemed a betrayal, a 
theft.

On regaining his composure  he  again noticed the  strong smell of  glue  
permeating that room  to which
he  seemed  to  be  returning  after  a  long  absence.  She  was  the  first  
to  speak:  “My  God,  what  have  we
done?”  Her  words  rang  of  surprise  and  despair.  She  looked  at  the  
objects  around  him  as  if  hoping  they
would call her back from what she hoped was a dream. The disorder of her dress, 
which she was only now
trying to settle, confirmed that she had come to her senses. She got up, not 
without dignity, called all her
forces to her aid but could find no refuge or even suitable attitude to adopt. 
Then she regained control of
herself, silently dried her tears and moved up to the table away from him.

It was his duty to try and console her, he realized. He went up to her and 
kissed her on the forehead. It
was a duty, but apart from that action he could think of nothing else. What was 
he to say?

She  let  him  be,  but  again  sorrow  overwhelmed  her,  and  once  more  she 
 wept  and  repeated  her
desperate  phrase.  She  did  not  say  a  word  of  reproof,  which  showed  
that  in  the  circumstances  she  was
relatively cool. He himself had nothing to regret because he had done what he 
had aimed to do for a long
time and which she knew to be his goal.

Finally,  Alfonso  found  words.  He  said  he  loved  her,  would  have  given 
 his  life  for  that  moment  and  so
could not regret his action.

She, allowing herself to be embraced, cried, “Yes, but we’ll never see each 
other again, never again!”

Then for a second his lucidity clouded. She did not understand that an 
irrevocable step had been taken
and seemed to think it could be cancelled by that exclamation!

“As you wish!” cried Alfonso ingenuously.

He felt ill at ease with this weeping girl and, had he not feared to displease 
her, would have left at once,
maybe  even  promising  never  to  return.  He  was  surprised  to  feel  so  
calm  and  far  from  the  desire  which
had led him to such risky action ten minutes before.

Francesca came and was at once able to guess what had happened, since Annetta 
was not yet in a state
to  hide  it  or  even  to  try.  Her  eyes  were  red  with  weeping,  and  
she  was  staring  obstinately  into  a  void,
forcing herself to think. On her side Francesca asked nothing and gave no 
occasion for lies. Alfonso in his
embarrassment  tried  to  leave.  Francesca  said  goodbye  with  a  shake  of  
the  hand  and  a  friendly,  even
respectful bow.

“Honour to merit!” she seemed to be saying.

On the landing he was stopped by Annetta, who had run after him on the spur of 
the moment.
“Here, here,” she said harshly, “I must speak to you.”

Certainly  the  tone  of  her  voice  did  not  reveal  that  these  words  
were  any  invitation  to  a  night  of  love,
and he realized afterwards that she had not intended them to be. In the utter 
darkness, motionless in the
middle  of  the  room,  not  daring  even  to  sit  down  for  fear  of  making 
 a  noise,  he  was  assailed  by  strange
thoughts. Some drama was being enacted for him, the scene of a penitent girl; 
he resolved to put up with
it        all resignedly. He knew he deserved all Annetta’s possible reproofs.

Instead  she  came  towards  him,  her  eyes  without  a  trace  of  tears.  
She  had  paused  at  the  door  with  a
finger to her lips listening for any movement in the passage, smiling like a 
boy hiding from someone in a
game, and the sight of her thus was enough to take away all Alfonso’s fears. He 
had already understood;
once more her senses had won.

She was an obliging, passionate lover. She asked him to forgive the brusque 
words she had pronounced
a short time before.

“I did think all that, but realize now it was silly of me.”

Without his being able to guess her thought-processes she then gave him her 
definition of life. Life was
when he kissed her; nothing else was worth a thing. She was expressly 
renouncing all else for his kiss, he
thought.  As  he  kissed  her  to  show  his  gratitude,  it  occurred  to  him 
 that  she  must  despise  him  if  she
considered herself to have lost the right to all other happiness by giving 
herself to him. She repeated her
declaration a number of times during the night, changing its form. “What, marry 
that logician, my cousin
Macario, because he’s rich!”

She smiled at such a notion, which somebody must have held.

Alfonso’s happiness, if it existed, was diminished by a fear. Had this woman 
whose feelings and opinions
had  changed  in  a  single  hour  maybe  lost  her  senses?  He  felt  himself 
 reasoning  as  usual,  calm,  pulled
along by his senses for short periods then satiated, and he could not imagine 
that in others emotion could
always be maintained with equal intensity.

Only once with a quick change of mood did she give an impression of sadness, 
even of despair, as she
had an hour before. She mentioned a noble family with whom the Mallers had 
recently become on visiting


terms. It was only for a second, then she made every effort to forget it and 
have it forgotten.

The  pink  curtain  on  the  window  had  become  visible  in  the  first  ray  
of  dawn,  and,  although  little  light
filtered from outside, it paled that of the candles they had left alight.

“Already!” exclaimed Annetta, snuggling up closer.
Hypocritically he repeated the same word.

From the floor above was heard the sound of a bare foot.

“Poor woman!” murmured Annetta, “I caused her such great distress.”
“Is that Francesca?” asked Alfonso in disquiet.

“Yes,” said Annetta smiling. “But it can all be put right!”

She embraced him to show that the good work she intended doing was due to him.

He  had  time  for  curiosity  now,  and  Annetta  told  him  that  Francesca  
had  been  the  mistress  of  Maller,
who had intended to marry her. “When I heard, I laughed in Francesca’s face and 
opposed it of course …
it seemed an offence to my mother’s memory.” The father had managed never to 
exchange a word on this
subject  with  his  daughter.  Only  when  Annetta  advised  Francesca  to  
leave  their  house  did  Maller  oppose
explicitly.  Relations  between  father  and  daughter  were  cold  for  some  
time  and  only  improved  when
Francesca  swore  to  Annetta  that  there  was  no  longer  anything  between  
her  and  Maller.  Till  that  night
Annetta had believed this. “I bet they’re deceiving me,” she thought out loud 
and quite calmly. “Of course
in  love there’s no such thing as deceit.”

At four in the morning she got up to accompany him to the door.

In  the  dark  hall  she  flung  her  arms  round  his  neck  again  and  told  
him  they  would  not  see  each  other
again until they could do so in the full light of day. That was to come about 
as soon as possible. She began
to laugh and with frank sensuality added: “We’ll have lots of days and lots of 
nights together!”

He stood outside watching her efforts to turn the key in the lock; then he 
heard the slow heavy drag of
her slippers on the stairs.

“Goodbye!” he cried, moved.

“Goodbye, goodbye!” replied Annetta’s low voice.

In that greeting she had put all the affection she could, and he guessed she 
had blown him kisses.

As he was moving hurriedly off homewards, he heard himself called. He turned. A 
white figure from the
window of Annetta’s room was waving him greetings with a white handkerchief. He 
raised his hat in reply.
The  gesture  was forced, but he  lacked the  corresponding sensation. The  
sight of  Annetta at the  window
reminded him that that was the customary procedure in the game of love.

Then  he  tried  to  feel  as  happy  as  his  good  luck  deserved,  and  
hummed  a  tune  which  did  not  sound
particularly jolly in the empty streets faintly lit by an invisible sun in a 
lilac sky. Deep unease made him
silent. He tried to explain it by doubts in his future relations with Annetta; 
even after that night these had
not yet left him. But Annetta was his! Was not that a great deal, so much that 
he should feel the happiest
man on earth? He had long desired, loved Annetta. It must be lack of sleep and 
exhaustion that had taken
away  the  enjoyment  of  his  happiness,  and  as  he  went  up  the  slope  
towards  the  Lanuccis,  he  tried  to
persuade himself that the next day he would wake up full of love and longing to 
see Annetta again.

He got into bed and fell asleep as soon as he put his head on the pillow.


XV

UT ON WAKING  he found himself with the same malaise. As he went over in his 
thoughts all the events
of the night before, his revulsion grew. He disliked everything about it, from 
his first stolen embrace

to  that  last  greeting  which  he  had  answered  by  forcing  himself  to  a 
 pretence  that  had  been  an  effort,
however  easy.  He  did  not  want  to  face  up  to  the  conclusion  which  
he  should  evidently  draw  from  this
feeling; in spite of all his delight in possessing  Annetta,  he  disliked  the 
 way  he  had  won  her.  He  did  not
believe Annetta loved him; she was bowing to the irrevocable.

Some  time  before  Macario  had  told  him  that  he  considered  him  
incapable  of  fighting  and  seizing  his
prey; at that time he had gloried in this criticism as if it were praise. Now 
he had shown that Macario was
mistaken.

He  looked  with  quite  different  eyes  at  his  little  room,  lit  by  a  
ray  of  sun,  the  only  one  of  the  day  that
penetrated  it  at  that  hour.  He  had  spent  some  happy  hours  there!  It 
 had  been  a  strange  happiness,
continuously  finding  comforts  for  his  pride  in  seeking  weaknesses  in  
others  from  which  he  was  immune
himself,  by  watching  others  struggling  for  money  and  honours  while  he 
 remained  calm,  satisfied  by  the
sense  of  talent  burgeoning  in  his  brain,  by  a  sweeter  emotion  in  
his  heart  than  falls  to  the  lot  of  most
human  beings.  He  understood  and  pitied  the  weakness  of  others  and  
felt  all  the  prouder  of  his  own
superiority. When he entered the library or his own little room, he withdrew 
completely from the struggle;
no one contested his happiness, he asked nothing of anyone. Now on the other 
hand the struggling people
whom he despised had drawn him into their midst, and without putting up any 
resistance he had felt the
same desires, adopted their weapons.

He wanted to combat his own disgust which, when attributed to the reasons which 
he obstinately gave
for it, was utterly unreasonable. As he dressed he thought that if he had heard 
such a story about anyone
else he would have laughed. He had entered the struggle because he had never 
allowed himself entirely
to leave it; even the modest happiness for which he had asked had never been 
accorded wholly. Oh come.
Surely this victory of his did give him liberty. Even though his affection for 
Annetta was not what it should
be  as  in  parenthesis  he  had  already  confessed—with  this  marriage  his  
life  was  just  beginning,  and  he
must surely be delighted at that.

Signora Lanucci, seeing him with knit brow, grew worried and, knowing he had 
come home late, asked
if he had spent the night gambling and lost. He laughed. Yes he had indeed 
gambled, but won.

During the morning, working slowly and stopping to dream as he stared at a name 
or a set of figures,
the  strange  idea  came  to  him  that  maybe  by  that  time  Annetta’s  love 
 had  already  ended  and  he  would
never hear mention of it again. It was quite possible that a love born so fast, 
the product of necessity and
resignation,  could  die  with  the  same  speed  as  that  with  which  it  
had  grown.  He  felt  no  fear  of  that.  If
someone had told him it had already happened, he would have felt neither 
surprise nor sorrow, though no
pleasure either. He would have been liberated from doubts much graver than he 
could bear. He knew that
in   that case Annetta would not only cease to be his mistress but also even 
his friend, and that he would
drop back among the mass of clerks from which he stood out only by this 
relationship. But before all else
he wanted to get back his own peace and calm.

A letter was awaiting him at home. It was from Annetta. He at once recognized 
her writing, the small
round  strokes  which  he  had  got  to  know  while  working  on  the  novel  
with  her.  He  opened  it  at  once.
Perhaps that letter had the words which would free him from his torture, either 
new pretences of love, or
laboured excuses to free herself from him.

He was wrong. There was nothing false in the letter.

It  was  written  to  tell  him  something  which  he  did  not  yet  know;  
and  the  first  part  concentrated  on  a
detailed explanation with a few little remarks intended to remove doubts or 
forestall opposition. Annetta
began by the statement, in a few simple but affectionate words, that they now 
formed one single person
in  aims  and  interests,  and  so  she  expected  him  to  trust  her  
completely.  In  consequence  she  would
sometimes be taking action without telling him things, which she knew he could 
not find agreeable. But
now she needed his help. She intended to go to her father at once and tell him 
everything. It would be a
nasty scene, and that was not to be wondered at because old Maller’s surprise, 
even sorrow, might well
be  considerable,  as  he  had  hoped  for  something  different  for  his  
daughter,  quite  wrongly,  she  hurriedly
added. She could not promise to make her father change his mind at 
once—Alfonso, for a short time she
was  sure,  might  be  exposed  to  rudeness  and  perhaps  even  to  rough  
treatment.  As  she  loved  him  she
would  suffer  for  every  unkind  word  said  to  him;  so  for  the  sake  of 
 Maller’s  dignity  she  suggested  that
Alfonso should leave town for a time. She had already told her father that 
Francesca wanted to send him
to  the  country  on  a  mission  for  her,  and  Maller  himself  had  
promised  to  see  he  was  offered  leave.  She
asked him to accept it.

The letter ended there, but re-opened with a postcript, two more 
closely-written pages. She wanted to
see  him  again  just  once  more  before  his  departure  and  asked  him  to  
be  by  the  Civic  Library  on  the
evening of that same day, on the slope towards Villa Necker where she had seen 
him at other times. She
did  not  want  him  to  come  to  her  home  because  she  did  not  wish  to  
be  alone  with  him  before  their
engagement.   He   must   not   dislike   this.   She   had   shown   herself   
weak   a   first   time   when   so   many
considerations and fears should have held her back; so she knew that she would 
give way just as soon a
second    time when such considerations no longer existed.

The  letter  closed  definitely  with  a  phrase  by  which  Annetta  tried  to 
 explain  and  excuse  her  fall:  ‘You


know,  my  dear,  it  was  love  that  made  me  yield  so  easily,  not  your  
courage,  great  though  it  was.  I  have
loved  you  for  a  long  time,  and  you  knew  it.  When  I  abandoned  
myself  to  your  caresses,  I  was  just  as  much
to blame as you. With you I have always yielded, but you did not always want 
what I did.’

This  letter,  marked  all  over  with  strong  affection,  moved  Alfonso,  
but  in  a  completely  different  sense
than Annetta might have hoped. In his eyes it seemed pointless to make all that 
effort to appear glad and
not merely resigned, and to make him believe that if that step had not been 
taken already, she was ready
to take it again when in full possession of her senses. No, she had fallen, and 
was acting like a person on
the  lookout  for  the  most  dignified  posture  in  which  to  fall,  after  
forgetting  to  stretch  out  her  arms  to
protect her head. That little head, always borne so proudly on its neck, had 
hit the ground with a bang,
and  Annetta  now  renounced  ever  raising  it  again.  That  letter,  it  
seemed  to  him,  showed  that  where
sensuality stopped the behaviour dictated by reasoned necessity began.

Only now did he begin to understand why, after reaching the goal at which he 
had been aiming for so
long,  he  felt  restless  and  disgusted  instead  of  happy.  This  was  not  
how  he  would  have  liked  to  achieve
riches, even if he eventually resigned himself to receiving them from Annetta. 
He remembered his hopes
of reaching the same goal by quite another route. Annetta was to have declared 
serenely that she loved
him and realized she could not put her own destiny into better hands than his. 
He had recognized a long
time ago that this dream was unlikely to be realized and had continued because 
drawn by sensuality not
by any other aims. Annetta was the more to blame since the excuses he had found 
for himself did not exist
for her. From beginning to end she had acted from sensuality and vanity. He had 
always had an urge to
sweeten  their  love  affair  by  words  and  ways;  she  had  merely  
tolerated  his  love  without  showing  she
returned it. So eventually he had found his feelings about it becoming more 
similar to hers, ceasing, that
is, when desire ceased.

Yet what disturbed him more than any doubt was the compassion aroused in him by 
Annetta. She had
been  struck  in  her  most  vulnerable  part,  her  pride,  and  sooner  or  
later  that  would  make  her  suffer
horribly.

Never  had  he  felt  so  unhappy  at  the  bank  as  he  did  that  day,  
though  after  receiving  that  letter  he
worked  fast  and  well  as  if  wanting  to  be  of  some  use  to  Signor  
Maller  in  compensation  for  his  action
against him. He met him in the passage and bowed deeply to make a good 
impression. In the afternoon
Santo suddenly  called  him  to  see  Signor  Maller.  He  quivered.  Maller  
very  rarely  needed  to  talk  to  him,
and  as  he  went,  Alfonso  thought  that  Annetta  had  already  spoken,  
leaving  him  unprepared  to  cope  with
her father’s anger. But it turned out to be a matter of business. He was in 
such a state of embarrassment
that Signor Maller looked at him with curiosity, certainly thinking that 
literature did not help its creators
assume an easy bearing.

His last daydreams had been based on this very fear, of being called by Signor 
Maller. He imagined him
more pained by having to marry off his daughter to Alfonso than by her 
dishonour, and shouting jeers and
insults   which   did   not   stop   even   when   Alfonso   declared   that   
though   he   had   behaved   badly,   the
consequences  need  not  be  those  drawn  by  Signor  Maller,  for  if  
necessary  he  would  withdraw  and
renounce Annetta while taking her secret to the grave. Ah, he could do very 
little to diminish the anger of
Maller,  who  must  blame  him  severely.  But  however  much  he  wanted  to  
impose  his  own  conditions—to
reject arrangements made under pressure of necessity—he had had no liberty in 
the matter at all. He had
to submit to the will of those in whose hands his destiny lay.

During  the  day  he  felt  a  burning  need  to  confide  in  someone.  It  
cost  him  a  lot  not  to  mention  it  all  to
Ballina, in whose room he spent half that day so as to avoid feeling so alone 
with his thoughts. He felt a
need to hear the opinion of someone not blinded by Utopias as, so often, he had 
been himself. An average
person might perhaps see it quite differently, a friend’s words could have 
lightened his conscience, even if
they did not bring him to accept what did not suit him.

But he was able to restrain himself with Ballina. White was leaving the bank 
the next day, and Alfonso
brought his story up, changing names and details. He told him that a young man 
he knew had courted a
girl much richer than himself who really did not want him, until she was caught 
in a pathological impulse,
changed her mind from necessity and gave way. The young man, on achieving his 
desire, was hesitant to
profit by his action and to place himself in circumstances which he foresaw 
would certainly not give him
happiness.

White looked at him with his calm gaze, unused to worrying about the troubles 
of others, and replied:
“One  needs  more  details.  If  the  young  man  loves  the  girl,  then  it’s 
 all  fine;  if  he  doesn’t,  it’s  very  bad

indeed.”

He had put his finger right on the spot; now that the dilemma was expressed by 
others, Alfonso could
not let it go without an answer—the dilemma tortured him throughout that 
morning. He had loved her but
did not know if he still did. What had happened to destroy his affection? For 
no, he did not love her! His
problem was solved, but he did not want to tell White so.

“If  he  doesn’t  love  her,”  continued  White,  “I  advise  him  to  cut  it  
out  regardless  of  any  sense  of
obligation,  because  a  marriage  like  that  is  always  and  in  all  
circumstances  inadvisable.  I  don’t  know  if
your man thinks so, but there are still things which can’t be sold.”

He spoke in grave tones, but Alfonso realized that his emotion was not aroused 
by the query he had put
to  him.  White’s  thoughts  were  elsewhere;  obviously  he  could  not  turn  
his  whole  mind  to  answering
Alfonso.

White’s  farewell  was  very  affectionate.  Alfonso  was  so  predisposed  to  
emotion  that  anything  was
enough  to  move  him  to  tears,  and  the  other,  usually  so  cold,  seemed 
 to  be  in  the  same  state.  He  told
Alfonso that he did not know exactly to what port in the Levant he was being 
sent, but it was somewhere


very very very far away, and at that repeated ‘very’ his voice broke with 
emotion.

Alfonso,  who  still  had  half-an-hour  between  leaving  the  office  and  
his  appointment,  walked  home  with
him.

“And the Signora …?” he asked, pointing towards White’s home.
“She’s not coming with me … she doesn’t want to.”

To cut things short and forestall any other question from Alfonso he changed 
the subject at once.

“Ah. I’ve been much happier in this town than in Paris, and it’s sad having to 
leave it just to earn one’s
bread. Oh. Maudit argent.” The French words made his imprecation sound more 
sincere. “If you wait for
me,  I’ll  be  down  directly,  and  we  can  walk  along  together  towards  
the  station  where  there’s  a  family  I
must say goodbye to.”

But Alfonso could not wait because he had just enough time to arrive in a 
proper manner shortly before
the hour arranged.

The  two  friends  shook  hands  and  looked  each  other  in  the  eye  for  a 
 wordless  instant,  White’s  regular
features  very  serious,  his  glasses  almost  sticking  to  his  eyes.  Then  
they  both  walked  quickly  away  from
each  other,  and  Alfonso  felt  how  important  their  separation  was.  Two  
beings  who,  by  chance,  had  met,
known  and  appreciated  each  other,  were  parting  never  to  meet  again.  
The  definite  leaving  of  a  thing  or
person is always sad.

It was now nearly dusk. Alfonso felt a deep melancholy. Now he was just 
beginning to realize how much
he had lost in every respect by the night’s adventure. White was leaving, and 
he felt as if he had seen the
last of a very important person in his life. He felt alone. What would his life 
be like now, when, twenty-four
hours after achieving the goal for which he had lived, he realized it did not 
give him happiness?

And yet  he  still  desired  Annetta. As  the  time  came  near when  he  was  
to  see  her  again,  he  evoked  her
pretty face and examined with curiosity the impression it made. It was desire, 
but desire which took away
none of his revulsion and seemed indeed to provide another reason to comprehend 
his own feelings. Now
he could vaunt a hatred of his own misdeed, for in spite of desiring and loving 
Annetta he still felt disgust
at the way he had won her. And in his gloom he was swept by pity for Annetta, 
realizing that by the events
he regretted she was losing much more than him. This, he felt, formed the major 
part of his disgust.

When  he  was  close  to  the  little  square,  he  began  to  run,  fearing  
he  had  arrived  late.  Annetta  was  not
there yet. According to what she had written, she was to be in front of the 
library by the Law Courts. That
evening he did not want to stand still for fear of indiscreet eyes and twice 
went slowly up and down the
little slope. As he was beginning to climb it again, he heard a voice calling: 
“Signor Alfonso!”

It was Francesca, not Annetta. She came towards him, her face slightly flushed, 
and greeted him in her
usual level voice that was apt to sound wooden.

“Up there,” and she pointed towards Villa Necker, “I’ve a carriage in which we 
could talk calmly, but I
prefer to walk. Anyway, no one will recognize me.”

Actually she was wrong, in spite of a heavy veil covering her face, and Alfonso 
thought that even at a
great distance he could have recognized that thin body with its lithe movements 
in its flowing black dress.

“What about Annetta?” he asked at last, remembering to show disappointment.

She had begun to walk with small but quick steps towards Villa Necker up the 
slope where he had been
breathless  once  before.  She  was  two  steps  ahead  so  as  to  make  
passers-by  think  she  was  not  in  his
company. Only after the Law Courts did she wait for him and answer his 
question. Annetta could not come
and  asked  him  to  excuse  her;  her  father  had  by  an  unfortunate  
coincidence  taken  it  into  his  head  to
remain with her at the very time of the appointment. Francesca handed him a 
note from Annetta, a few
words written hurriedly at the last moment.

“I’ll read it afterwards,” he said impatiently when she showed that she wanted 
him to open it at once.

“I  don’t  know  what  you  think  of  me,”  she  said  without  blushes  or  
hesitation,  “but  I’ve  had  the  part  of
intermediary imposed on me; it’s the best I can do now for Annetta. We must 
reach the desired result as
soon as possible.” This desired result must be marriage; it was her only hint 
and in no way necessary.

“Annetta  says  …”  went  on  Francesca,  and  the  opening  was  enough  to  
show  that  the  message  she  had
been  charged  to  give  would  be  followed  by  her  own  ideas  and  advice. 
 Obviously  Francesca  had  thought
over all she wanted to tell him, and if she were to show doubts or surprise 
later, that would be because
Alfonso’s attitude was so different from the one foreseen.

Annetta had merely asked her to repeat what she had written. To avoid his 
having to face affronts, she
wanted  him  to  leave  town  for  a  while  until  he  found  everything  
settled  on  his  return.  The  only  new  fact
was that she had had occasion to talk to Cellani who would be giving him the 
required leave.

Francesca   interrupted   herself,   noticing   Alfonso’s   silence,   which   
she   interpreted   with   her   usual
quickness.

“You’re against this plan, are you?” and with calm satisfaction she added, “Oh 
I foresaw that!”

“No,  I’m  not  against  it,”  exclaimed  Alfonso,  hesitating.  What  worried  
him  most  was  his  fear  of
Francesca  noticing  that  he  was  not  as  interested  in  the  whole  matter 
 as  he  should  be.  In  a  voice  which
tried to sound sad he added, “Will it be hard for Signorina Annetta to take the 
steps you mention?”

“Why?”

“Oh well! She might have some harsh words said to her?”

He sounded angry because to one pretending it is particularly annoying not to 
be understood at once.
“Annetta  won’t  care  a  bit  about  any  harsh  words  on  a  matter  so  
important  to  her,  though  it  may  not

seem so to you, Signor Alfonso.”

Her  voice  lent  itself  to  irony.  He  felt  that  she  had  no  suspicion  
how  close  she  was  to  the  truth  in  that
rebuke, but her irony offended him all the same.


“How important this matter is to me you can easily imagine, but I don’t like 
leaving Signora Annetta all
alone battling here on my account!”

She gave him a careful look.

“So you don’t want to leave, then?”

“I don’t want anything, but I’m allowed, I hope, to express what I like or 
don’t like”
She looked disappointed.

“Oh,  so  that’s  how  it  is?  …  Listen,  I’ll  be  frank.  I  see  no  
reason  why  you  should  leave.  Annetta  is
mistress  at  home,  and  at  her  first  words,  if  she  says  them  
properly,  any  opposition  will  collapse.  So
neither Annetta nor you need fear any affronts.” Then seeing him hesitating and 
surprised, “I don’t know
how to win your trust in so short a time, but I need to. You are about to do 
something silly, and I want to
prevent it. So listen to me, follow my advice, don’t leave.” She told him how 
fond she was of him, how she
always remembered his village and the year she had spent there and his mother 
whom she had so loved,
all in her gentle, calm, cold voice that was incapable of pretence. “So trust 
me, don’t leave.” And she went
on  talking.  She  told  him  that  because  it  was  him  she  had  been  
pleased  to  learn  that  Annetta  loved  him,
but had Annetta given herself like that to anyone else, she would never have 
forgiven herself as it could
only  have  happened  because  she  had  not  had  the  courage  to  ask  
Maller  to  intervene  and  cut  short  a
flirtation which she knew had already begun. “I made a mistake, but if the 
result of my mistake is to be
your marriage to Annetta, I can’t say I regret it. I’ll find myself rewarded 
for my own mistake.”

They were at the top of the slope. Instead of looking where they were going 
their attention was all on
each  other.  Almost  instinctively  Alfonso  made  to  cross  the  square  
because  if  they  went  straight  on  they
would be going through a busy street, but she made him turn aside.

“The carriage is waiting for me there.”

“But why should I act against Annetta’s express wishes?”

“Well, as you yourself have said, a man doesn’t leave his post like that.” She 
was accepting an argument
whose  flimsiness  she  would  have  destroyed  a  short  time  ago.  “And  
what  is  more,  to  do  so  would  not  be
wise.”

So she was advising him to remain in case of any danger to a match which she 
had already shown was
much wanted by herself. For the second time she was giving advice, becoming 
worse than an accomplice,
an instigator. He felt turned to ice.

“I can never oppose Signorina Annetta’s wishes. I shall obey her orders or 
desires most scrupulously.”

He  spoke  in  the  tone  of  someone  wanting  to  cut  short  the  
conversation.  He  brought  up  no  arguments
himself;  he  had  made  up  his  mind  and  did  not  bother  to  think  where 
 the  passive  obedience  of  which  he
spoke would get him.

She looked at him in astonishment, not quite sure of having heard properly. 
Then she spoke again, and
for the first time Alfonso heard her voice angry; it was still faint but now 
broken by panting and when it
rose lost all sweetness.

“But  suppose  that  by  following  Annetta’s  advice  you  expose  to  great  
danger  the  happiness  you’re  so
sure  of?  What  sort  of  love  d’you  think  you’ve  inspired  in  her,  that 
 of  the  ladies  of  old  which  resisted  all
obstacles  and  lasted  for  ever,”  and  she  gave  a  forced  laugh.  “You’re 
 confident  enough  to  leave  her  here
exposed to her father and to her relatives’ advice, are you? Do go if you want 
to, and return after only a
week.  You’ll  find  yourself  just  a  little  petty-clerk  at  the  Maller  
bank  again,  and  Annetta  won’t  even
remember  she  ever  knew  you.”  The  words  came  from  her  mouth  compact  
as  a  cry.  She  went  on  more
calmly,  “I know  what the  Mallers are  like. D’you  think that when  Annetta 
is  told what  she  has  forgotten
today, just for one day, d’you think she’ll still remain faithful?”

“I do!” said Alfonso calmly.

This was a solution he had not thought of during the long day, but as soon as 
Francesca brought it up,
he realized it to be likeliest and best. Was it not almost certain in fact that 
Annetta’s ambition, forgotten
for  a  short  time,  would  soon  regain  the  place  it  had  always  
occupied  till  then?  It  was  a  good  solution
because, while before he had feared being forced into the part of betrayer, now 
all of a sudden he became
the betrayed with no other obligation than to grant a generous pardon, which 
was easy and agreeable to
do.

“Then all is lost for you!” said Francesca in a voice calm for an instant to 
make her words more serious.
“I don’t understand your reasons for acting like this, and I don’t care to; if 
you leave town even for a few
days, you’ll never see Annetta again.”

“I must leave if Annetta orders me.”

“What I’m telling you is so obvious that either you don’t care about Annetta at 
all, or you have suddenly
lost the use of your reason.”

She spoke at random without reflecting much on what she had said, and Alfonso 
sensed that, but it did
not make him forget to answer words which had struck him on the raw.

“Annetta  is  as  important  to  me  as  the  light  in  my  own  eyes,”  he  
was  pleased  with  the  phrase.  “But  I
don’t  want  to  steal  her  love;  I  want  it  to  be  given  spontaneously.” 
 Then  he  managed  to  find  the  right
intonation and words. “A love which could cease in a week would be of no use to 
me, and now that you’ve
brought up the doubt, if Annetta hadn’t suggested this journey, I would have 
myself.”

She laughed contemptuously.

“You’ve found a way of calling your own coldness ‘dignity’ .”

She  was  right  again;  she  had  hit  by  chance  on  the  word  which  most  
offended  him  and  to  give  herself
the satisfaction of offending him again insisted on it blindly.

He remained utterly calm. Only once did he become agitated when, tired of 
seeing the argument always


repeating itself, he made the mistake of declaring that discussion between them 
was useless because if he
did not leave, he would have to find good reasons to convince Annetta. In one 
breath she suggested ten.
Alfonso  was  alarmed,  as  the  possibility  flashed  into  his  mind  that  
he  could  be  forced  to  stay;  he
recognized his error, and without  losing  himself  in  refuting  Francesca’s  
suggestions,  went  on  protesting
with  an  obstinacy  like  that  of  people  with  few  ideas,  such  as  
peasants,  that  he  would  just  carry  out
Annetta’s  wishes  without  probing  into  whether  she  was  right  or  not.  
He  was  making  a  love-match,  he
repeated  in  order  to  go  on  talking  longer,  he  was  making  a  
love-match  and  did  not  want  to  be  shrewd
about it like someone acting from self-interest.

She  was  walking  two  steps  ahead  of  him  again  and  seemed  to  have  
given  up  trying  to  convince  him.
Suddenly she slowed down, wondering again if he distrusted her. It was not a 
reasonable supposition, but
she had been thrown off balance by the shock of having to leave him without 
obtaining what had seemed
to her so easy. She acted without consideration, following her first impulse.

She  began  to  explain  why  she  was  taking  such  an  interest  in  his  
fate,  and  her  calm  voice  must  have
hidden the great inner agitation that had brought her to such a confession.

“It’s quite true that I’m fond of her and her family,” she began with a 
coldness which made her phrase
sound   ironic.   “But   it’s   not   only   my   affection   that   makes   me 
  act.   This   marriage   might   have   such
consequences  for  me  that  my  life’s  happiness  could  depend  on  it.  
Have  you  understood  or  d’you  still
wonder       if my advice was given in good faith?”

He could no longer doubt it; he had understood. In the delirium of the night 
Annetta had confessed that
it was she herself who had opposed Maller’s marriage, and she had also hinted 
that by accepting him as a
husband she could no longer persist in that opposition. So Francesca had a 
great stake in this marriage,
and  her  fury  was  understandable  at  finding,  when  so  close  to  her  
goal,  something  now  unforeseen  and
unreasonable arising to put her victory in doubt.

So shaken was he by this confession that he deviated once more from his method 
of defence; he wanted
to convince her that his departure could not be such a great danger to his 
relations with Annetta. Annetta
loved him, she had repeated it to him in every tone, given proof. Why then 
should he be so offensive as to
doubt the seriousness of her affection?

She  was  the  first  to  give  up  the  struggle.  She  walked  another  ten  
steps  or  so  beyond  the  carriage,
whose  coachman  was  keeping  the  door  open;  not  replying  to  Alfonso’s  
long  speeches,  perhaps  not
following them. Suddenly she looked at him, raising her head with a quick 
movement.

“Either you don’t love Annetta or you’re afraid of her father.”
He thought it more dignified not to reply.

As she returned to the carriage she stuttered: “Never have I seen such a 
thing.”

Before  leaving,  she  turned  to  him  and  put  her  small  cold  hand  in  
his,  ready  to  shake  it  with  the
friendship  which  she  would  otherwise  have  been  unable  to  show,  
saying:  “Anyway,  I  shall  do  all  I  can  to
spare you the misfortune you deserve. I’m sorry.”

She jumped into the carriage and helped the hesitant coachman shut the door.

He was free at last. No one could any longer try and change his mind; he would 
leave knowing that by
this   step   he   was   renouncing   Annetta.   Francesca   had   convinced   
him;   departure   was   equivalent   to
renunciation.  He  felt  calm  and  happy.  If  what  Francesca  foresaw  took  
place,  he  was  free  from  all  doubt
and  remorse.  She  had  said  that  if  Annetta  abandoned  him  he  would  go 
 back  to  being  a  wretched  petty-
clerk of the Maller bank. No! He would be superior even to the position that 
Annetta wanted to give him,
a superiority shown precisely by his renunciation.

Next  day  at  the  bank  he  felt  better.  He  worked  willingly  because,  
knowing  nothing  unexpected  could
happen to him, he felt calm, free from the fears which had torn at him the day 
before; the need he had felt
to  confide  in  someone  for  advice  or  support  amazed  him.  Now  he  had  
tucked  his  secret  away,  and  it
merely seemed like an interesting episode in his life.

Cellani was to talk to him, not he to Cellani, so he did not even fear that 
interview. Finding he was not
called  by  midday  he  had  but  one  fear,  which  was  that  Francesca,  
unable  to  convince  him  of  the  need  to
stay, had managed to convince Annetta that it was better not to let him leave. 
He would be in their hands,
have to put up with rebukes from Maller that he deserved, and then, what was 
much worse, assume the
part of an amorous lover.

At  midday  little  Giacomo  came  to  tell  him  that  the  assistant  manager 
 was  waiting  to  see  him  in  his
room.  Alfonso  lost  a  little  of  his  calm  because  he  had  doubted  
whether  he  would  be  called,  and  the
unexpected always agitated him.

Signor Cellani was alone and had his desk clear of papers. Over that desk 
passed all the innumerable
papers of the bank, not to leave it until signed by him; reading incoming and 
outgoing letters must have
meant a vast amount of work.

Cellani was easily embarrassed, and so Alfonso was more at ease with him than 
with Maller. At first the
assistant manager asked him how he was, then, in hesitating words as usual, he 
observed with some wit
that he usually only granted leave of absence when it was asked for, and this 
was the first time he found
himself having to offer it. As the matter was being treated so lightly, 
obviously he had not been told the
reason  why  this  leave  was  being  asked.  Alfonso  felt  so  calm  that  he 
 also  made  an  effort  at  humour  in
order to help the assistant manager out of the embarrassing position he had 
mentioned.

“May I ask for the leave of absence which you can’t offer?”

“Granted!” said Cellani laughing. “I don’t know quite what it’s all about, but 
it seems very important to
Signorina Francesca and even a little to Signorina Annetta who asked me to let 
you go at once. I’m sure
you’ll not abuse this leave and that we’ll see you back here in a fortnight.” 
He asked him to warn Sanneo


and  arrange  with  him  about  his  work;  perhaps  it  would  also  be  
necessary  for  him  to  work  longer  than
usual that day. “Finally, if Signor Maller asks you why you ‘want’ this leave, 
you must give him some good
watertight  reason.  Say,  for  example,  that  your  mother  is  very  ill;  
you  can’t  do  any  harm  by  saying  that”
and      he bid him a warm goodbye.

“Have a good time, now!”

Sanneo was still hard at work, bent over a sheet of paper filled with his big 
writing, muttering words as
he wrote them down. Alfonso entered and waited respectfully.

“Yes?” he asked without raising his head.

Alfonso  began  to  speak,  saying  without  remorse  that  his  mother  was  
ill  and  that  Signor  Cellani  had
granted him a fortnight’s leave. He noticed Sanneo was going on writing and 
muttering eagerly over what
he was writing; it must be some dispute—all on account of Maller & Co—and in 
his ardour he had heard
nothing said to him. Alfonso became impatient and eventually said in a changed 
voice:

“I’m leaving tomorrow.”

“What’s that, what’s that?” asked Sanneo in surprise, raising his head at last 
“Leaving?”

Alfonso repeated all that he had said, and Sanneo looked annoyed. Now the 
matter had all his attention,
and he put his pen down to get away from other ideas. The day before, he had 
ordered Alfonso to take on
some   new   work,   checking   calculations   about   liquidity,   which   he  
 had   done   himself   since   Miceni’s
departure from the correspondence department. It was a work that prolonged his 
hours considerably, and
after deciding to hand it over to Alfonso he was alarmed to find it falling 
back on himself. It had been an
effort to hand over the work and teach Alfonso, and that was now all wasted 
labour.

“If Signor Cellani gave you leave”, which clearly he would have liked to doubt, 
“you’re free to go. Were
you called by telegram?”

“Yes,” replied Alfonso, annoyed at having to give details.

“Oh!  Then  there’s  no  objection!”  said  Sanneo.  “Although  in  such  a  
case  I  would  not  leave  at  once  but
wait for confirmation of news which is sometimes given by relatives too easily 
alarmed.”

But  seeing  that  Alfonso  did  not  reply  to  this  veiled  suggestion,  
Sanneo  suddenly  became  a  courteous
friend  bidding  farewell.  He  warmly  hoped  Alfonso  would  find  his  
mother  in  good  health  and,  wanting  to
cancel any bad effect that might have been left by his hesitation, added 
laughing: “Even if you find your
mother  in  perfect  health,  don’t  give  up  any  of  the  leave  you’ve  
got.  We’ll  see  you  again  in  a  fortnight,
then.”

Maller was no longer there, and Alfonso had to return in the afternoon to say 
goodbye to him. He found
him alone in his office working hard at some notes in a pocket notebook. 
Alfonso was about to repeat the
lie suggested by Cellani, but Maller interrupted:

“A good journey to you, Signor Nitti, a good journey!”

Alfonso  bowed  himself  out;  he  was  annoyed.  Maller’s  cold  bearing  
disturbed  him,  however  little  he
cared  for  the  moment  about  being  liked;  he  had  even  calculated  on  
Maller’s  decisive  opposition  to  free
him of his obligations to Annetta.

The  only  employees  he  said  goodbye  to,  apart  from  his  colleagues  in  
the  correspondence  department,
were  Miceni  and  Starringer  the  despatch  clerk.  He  also  said  farewell  
to  Marlucci,  but  only  because  he
found him in Miceni’s room. The Tuscan was cold, realizing why Alfonso 
remembered him.

Miceni behaved better than anyone. Starringer had asked for all the details and 
what illness his mother
was  suffering  from  and  how  long  for  and  why  he  could  have  known  
nothing  about  it  till  now.  Then,
showing that he was incapable of putting himself in the position of a son 
receiving news of his mother’s
danger, he said:

“Lucky beggar, you, going home,” and a shadow passed over his wide face. Ah! He 
was only thinking of
himself, of the long holiday he had taken the month before which cancelled any 
right to another for two
more years. Ballina, after warm consolations, had a doubt:

“Is your journey money being advanced by Signor Maller?”

Miceni, who obviously knew the ways of the world better, very sincerely hoped 
he would find his mother
in  good  health.  Then  he  exonerated  him  from  bothering  to  greet  all  
the  other  clerks  and  promised  to
make his excuses to them. Alfonso told him of Maller’s cold greeting and Miceni 
was able to soothe him
by describing the reasons for his chief’s ill-humour.

“He’s a man with many worries, and just at the moment he’s had a misfortune and 
a financial disaster
in the family to cope with.”

These were Fumigi’s madness and the failure of the latter’s business which was 
inevitable. Miceni told
how  Maller,  from  affection  for  his  nephew,  had  taken  on  the  
responsibility  of  winding-up  this  business,
and  only  then  realized  that  it  was  in  debt  because  of  failed  
speculations  of  Fumigi’s  during  the  last  two
months. Miceni said that the disaster was due to the weakening of Fumigi’s 
intellect. As to the reasons for
the illness itself he supposed these lay in over-work.

“I  know  this  summer  he  was  working  ten  hours  a  day  in  the  office  
and  more  at  home  afterwards,  on
mathematical problems. His weak constitution couldn’t stand the strain.”

Alfonso  thought  that  he  knew  more  about  the  cause  of  this  illness.  
It  must  have  been  due  to  grief  at
Annetta’s  refusal.  Had  Fumigi  succeeded  in  his  suit  he  would  have  
enjoyed  his  good  fortune  very  much
more than Alfonso himself, who now felt another twinge of remorse at not 
profiting from it.

He was very worried about finding a good lie to explain his sudden departure to 
the Lanuccis. He did
not want to say that he was leaving due to his mother’s illness, or he would be 
asked for too many details.
“I’m  leaving!”  he  said,  turning  to  Signora  Lanucci  whom  he  found  
sitting  at  table  with  the  old  man.

Lucia was always out strolling with Gralli at supper-time.


“How long will you be away?” asked old Lanucci, raising his nose from his plate 
in great alarm.

“A  fortnight!”  said  Alfonso  quickly  to  calm  him.  He  had  understood  
the  reason  for  that  alarm.  “I’m
leaving on business …” He had not yet decided on any particular motive from the 
selection at his disposal,
but none of them seemed likely enough to be believed without hesitation. It 
suddenly occurred to him that
his mother had wanted to sell their house a long time ago. “We’re selling our 
house, which is too big and
too far from the village for my mother.”

The  old  man  again  stopped  eating  and  straightened  his  spectacles,  
sure  sign  that  he  wanted  to  talk
business.

“So that’s why you’re leaving, is it? Leaving your job for a fortnight, as if 
that’s not enough!”

Alfonso replied that Signor Maller had granted him leave quite willingly, and 
so he was losing nothing
by his absence. But Lanucci did not give up so quickly. He rebuked him for 
wanting to carry through such
an important business deal all alone, being too young to know how to set about 
it.

“Our notary Mascotti will help me” replied Alfonso.

One of Lanucci’s many jobs was also that of house-agent. He suggested that 
Alfonso, instead of leaving,
should  give  him  a  description  of  the  house  and  an  idea  of  the  
price  so  that  he  could  look  around  for  a
purchaser in town.

Alfonso  did  not  accept  this  suggestion  and  laughed  to  himself  at  the 
 thought  that  he  ran  the  risk  of
selling the house without intending to, and without having explained his 
departure.

That  evening  Signora  Lanucci  helped  him  pack  the  things  he  was  to  
take  with  him.  During  this
operation, as she moved around the room with his shirts on her arm and spent a 
long time bent over the
trunk straining to shut it, she talked to him about the happiness awaiting 
Lucia. That day Gralli had been
to visit the Lanuccis three times, once for a few minutes as his work did not 
allow him to stay longer. He
had walked for a whole hour just to see the face of his beloved. At that moment 
they were next door in the
living-room chatting. “I wonder what about?” asked Signora Lanucci, raising her 
eyes from the trunk key
which  she  was  trying  to  turn.  And  as  she  threw  herself  with  all  
her  weight  on  the  trunk,  she  added
laughing: “They’re talking about something which I no longer know and you don’t 
yet know.”

Before going to bed Alfonso went into the living-room where he found Lucia half 
stretched on the sofa
and  Gralli  sitting  cross-legged  on  the  ground,  admiring  her.  Even  
after  catching  sight  of  Alfonso  she
stayed in her position, while Gralli with a twist of his muscular body rose to 
his feet.

“You’re  leaving  tomorrow?  A  good  journey  to  you!”  said  Lucia,  and  
without  moving  held  out  her  hand
with a ladylike gesture.

Since her engagement she had lost her shyness with others because she had been 
told to; she had lost
her  respectfulness  towards  Alfonso  for  her  own  reasons.  She  had  let  
herself  be  ill-treated  and  taken  no
revenge for so long that now she wanted to make him feel she was independent, 
expected nothing from
him and did not like him. She was being particularly off-hand in order to make 
him forget the time when
her behaviour might have made him think she loved him. Alfonso had so many 
other things on his mind
that he had not even realized what efforts Lucia was making to offend him, and 
when he could not avoid
noticing her coldness, he thought her quite right to be so.

It  was  past  ten  o’clock  when  Santo  brought  him  another  letter  from  
Annetta.  She  told  him  that
Francesca had made her doubt the wisdom of his journey; but she left him free 
to do what he preferred
and still wanted him safe from any possible offence. Anyway, she could not 
quite see how he could remain
after having received the bank’s permission to leave. In case he did leave she 
sent her farewells, and was
sorry not to have seen him before he went.

He had no hesitation before replying. He wanted to leave and the doubts which 
Francesca had aroused
in Annetta did not seem worthy of his attention. Why, even Annetta herself was 
still inclined to think he
should leave.

Santo was standing by his desk when he wrote the reply; Alfonso kept his face 
calm with an effort lest
he showed the other that this was anything different from a routine reply. He 
had to cover his letter with
another  sheet  of  paper  because  he  saw  that  Santo  had  calmly  got  to  
his  feet  and  was  reading  over  his
shoulder. On seeing he was noticed Santo was not at all confused and sat down 
smiling.

“I didn’t look at your letter at all.”

Alfonso, frankly and  unhesitatingly, had  opened his  letter with  ‘Darling  
wife-to-be’.  Then  ‘I’m  leaving!’
he wrote in the exclamatory tone of one decided on a sacrifice. He was leaving, 
he went on, though with
such a prize reserved for him he was beyond being offended by any insults from 
her father ‘who is right to
hate  me’—what  objective  indifference  that  phrase  showed!—he  did  not  
want  such  insults  to  be  suffered
also by her.

He  felt  pleased  with  both  phrases,  but  on  rereading  Annetta’s  letter  
he  realized  that  he  had  simply
forgotten to answer it. Annetta in fact was telling him that she left him free 
to leave or not, and he was
replying that he was leaving because she imposed it and very much against his 
will. He would have to be
more  careful  and  astute  in  his  reply,  or  it  would  eventually  make  
her  think  him  stupid  or  indifferent  in
spite of his melodramatic words. Like this, it was pointless or mistaken. If 
Annetta still cared enough to
study his letters, she was clever enough to soon realize that Alfonso was 
pretending and not even taking
much trouble about his pretence. This should have worried him a great deal 
because he had tried to make
her  think  he  was  the  betrayed  party,  but  such  was  his  indifference  
that  he  could  easily  console  himself.
Annetta would not pore over that note of his for long.

He was woken by old Lanucci, who wanted to accompany him to the station. 
Lanucci always got up at
that hour and from what he said slept a very small part of the few hours he 
spent in bed.

It must have been almost the same time as when he had left Annetta’s room two 
nights before, and that


dim light of dawn, those deserted streets in which their steps resounded, 
reminded him of his walk home
in a daze not only at the adventure that had happened to him, but at his own 
strange sensations. It was
right that one walk should remind him of the other; this was the consequence of 
that previous walk. The
sky did not promise a good day. A black cloud was hanging over the city, and 
the humid air showed signs
of the sirocco.

Old Lanucci  as  he  went along  was  advising  him  on  how to  set  about  
selling  his house.  He  was  first  to
pretend that he was in no hurry and had not come to the village for that 
purpose, or he would be cheated;
the  rumour  that  he  wanted  to  sell  the  house  should  be  scattered  
artfully  about.  Whoever  made  the  first
offer should be made to believe that the offer was being listened to from pure 
curiosity. Then, according
to  the  offer,  he  must  either  pretend  that  it  had  seduced  him  into  
selling,  or  hint  that  the  offer  was  not
worth considering but might be if improved on. All this was to be done with an 
air not of asking favours
but of granting them.

But  Alfonso  was  not  listening  to  this  vain  chatter.  Crossing  the  Via 
 dei  Forni  he  looked  at  the  Maller
house,  brown  and  glum  like  all  the  others  in  the  light  of  dawn,  
under  a  cloudy  sky.  In  the  empty  grey
street  it  had  a  grand  look,  with  its  two  floors  and  wide  windows  
and  its  stucco-work  here  and  there,
though rather without grace nevertheless. He was escaping because of the storm 
about to break over it.
Gladder than  ever  to  get away,  he  tried  to  excuse  his own  egotism  and 
 did  so with  a  reason  dictated  by
egotism personified; it was not worth suffering for something he did not want.

When  he  was  alone  in  a  third-class  carriage  and  no  longer  saw  old  
Lanucci’s  glum  face,  he  stopped
reasoning and felt no more need for self-excuse. He was free at last. For only 
a fortnight, but during it he
did        not  even  want  to  remember  the  town  where  he  had  suffered  
so  much.  He  wanted  to  forget  his  own
rather shabby behaviour, his own and others’ misfortunes. He was fleeing from 
Annetta, the girl who had
given  herself  to  him  from  adolescent  curiosity  and  was  persecuting  
him  with  her  artificial  love;  but  he
breathed  freely  also  at  leaving  all  the  people,  bad  or  unlucky,  
among  whom  he  had  been  forced  to  live.
Beneath  her  submissive  airs,  Francesca,  astute  simulator  that  she  was, 
 hid  an  iron  will  and  clever
intrigues  and,  to  elevate  herself,  had  yielded  to  Maller  because  he  
was  rich!  And  that  dreary  Lanucci
home where he felt so wretched amid all its troubles—that girl was already in 
love with the man she was
marrying from self-interest! Oh, what dreary and squalid people! The railway 
line running along the flat
dykes  seemed  to  be  bearing  him  up  to  a  point  from  which  he  could  
judge  all  those  people  rushing  after
goals  that  were  stupid  and  unreachable.  And  he  went  on  to  ask  
himself,  “Why  don’t  they  live  more
serenely?”

He  leaned  out  of  the  window.  The  town,  with  its  white  houses  in  a  
big  semi-circle  on  the  shore,  was
hugging the sea; its shape might have been given it by a huge wave that had 
pushed it back in the middle.
It looked grey and sad, and a haze overhead seemed to come from a blending of 
mists, the only trace of
its vitality. Inside, in that beehive, people were running about after money; 
and Alfonso, who had known
life there and thought life was like that nowhere else, breathed freely as he 
fled that cowl of cloud.


XVI

N THE LAST DAYS’ agitation he had quite forgotten that his journey would bring 
not only the pleasure of
escaping from places he hated, but the joy of revisiting his home village.

On  remembering  this,  all  his  bitterness  vanished  at  once.  It  was  
purest  delight  to  think  of  the
unexpected pleasure he would bring his mother.

This village of his was a group of houses scattered in a fold of a vast green 
valley crossed diagonally by
the  railway.  The  station  lay  a  stone’s  throw  from  the  village.  It  
was  a  road-mender’s  hut,  raised  to  the
dignity of a station as a result of pressure by the local parliamentary deputy. 
Before that one had to leave
the  train  at  the  previous  station  and  reach  the  village  by  cart.  
“Poor  but  happy!”  thought  Alfonso,
remembering  the  villagers’  joy  when  they  got  their  station.  And  what  
a  fine  road  they  had  made  to  join
the         new station to the village! Straight as on a map and wide enough 
for three carts at the same time.

The  Nittis’  house  was  as  far  from  the  station  as  it  was  from  the  
village.  Alfonso’s  father,  wanting  a
shorter route to it, had improved an existing lane which had passed his land 
and rejoined the main road
halfway  along.  Alfonso  remembered  his  father  as  the  sort  of  man  who  
must  have  lived  in  cities  at  one
time; and yet he had been simple enough to be pleased when the locals called 
this lane of his Via Nitti.

Alfonso remembered the existence of this lane, which would take him faster now 
to his mother’s arms.
In front of the station hut, leaning on a thick stick, watching the train pass, 
stood Mascotti the notary.

He was dressed in a black velvet jacket, light-coloured trousers and very high 
boots. Thickset and fat but
rather bent by age, with a sunburnt face fringed by a short grey beard, he 
looked like a retired soldier.

“Here already?” he asked Alfonso in surprise.

Just as surprised, Alfonso asked in return: “Is she expecting me?”

“No, no!” exclaimed the notary, slowly putting his forefinger to his nostrils 
and rubbing it up to an eye.
The  gesture,  which  Alfonso  remembered,  made  him  realize  that  the  
notary  was  thinking  hard.  With  a
naturalness  which  deceived  Alfonso  he  then  added,  “I’m  surprised  to  
see  you,  that’s  all.  I  wasn’t
expecting you.”

They  came  down  from  the  embankment  and  passed  by  a  road-mender’s  
shack,  his  wife  and  two  half-
naked children staring wide-eyed at Alfonso as if he had dropped from the sky. 
Of the two children, one,
aged about six, in a shirt and trousers reaching his knees, was holding the 
other, who could not have been
more than two, dressed only in a shirt fastened round the middle by a band from 
which hung more shirt.
They made up a tangle of thin dark limbs; even the one who could not yet walk 
by himself burnt black by
the sun.

Alfonso  did  not  realize  at  once  how  odd  Mascotti’s  bearing  was;  
absorbed  in  the  first  sensations  at
seeing his village again, he had no time to observe him.

Autumn  had  already  stripped  the  valley,  which  in  its  bareness  looked  
very  close  to  the  stony  region
nearby. The countryside had not the brownness of damp fertile earth and was 
scattered with white stones
which  proliferated  a  few  miles  further  on.  Nearby  fields  were  also  
scattered  with  pebbles  left  mingling
with  the  soil,  so  that  the  bora  wind  which  raged  there  would  not  
sweep  off  the  loose  earth;  a  few  rocks
broke the regularity of furrows or stunted the growth of scraggy trees.

The houses of the village were scarcely visible in the slight mist covering the 
valley; but the wide road
off which lay the Nittis’ house, and which went straight on to become the main 
street of the village, was
visible as a gleaming streak. The landscape held no surprises for him; he 
remembered its smallest details.
From beyond the village he could see the white tip of a hillock of stones, a 
regular shaped dome without
houses or vegetation, and on its right a small copse of young pine trees 
planted against the encroaching
stones. But since he had left the copse had made little progress.

There was one surprise. He had expected his home to be nearer the village; 
wanting his mother to be
less isolated in his imagination he had moved their home and now looked for it 
where it was not. In fact it
lay  quite  a  distance  off,  all  on  its  own  in  the  midst  of  fields,  
although  old  Nitti  had  hoped  that  the  area,
being in the most fertile part of the valley, would soon be built over.

Alfonso hastened his step impatiently. Now he saw one side of the house, the 
colour of terracotta. The
front faced the village and was the only side with windows worthy of the name; 
the other side had only a
couple of holes bored by the old doctor himself to help the air circulate. He 
came to the alley leading up
to the house. It must be little used because it merged for stretches into a 
field from which it never really
detached itself.

Mascotti had been silent for a long time and, after waiting in vain to be 
questioned, spoke first.

“Please, I’m sixty-five, and if you hurry so I won’t reach your home at the 
same time as you!” He leaned
against a tree to rest. Then with an air of indifference, and staring at the 
white felt cap he had taken from
his head, he said: “Your mother is not very well.”

Alfonso glanced at him closely, hesitating. Was Mascotti’s air of indifference 
sincere? Moved, he asked:
“What’s wrong with her?”

“Some  little  thing  to  do  with  her  heart,  it  hasn’t  a  regular  beat,  
so  the  doctor  says,”  replied  Mascotti,
thinking he had found the simplest way of defining the illness.

“You  were  waiting  at  the  station;  was  I  sent  a  telegram?”  asked  
Alfonso,  who  remembered  Mascotti’s
first surprise at seeing him.

“Yes, but thank heaven …”

Alfonso heard no more than the “yes”.


“See you at home,” he said, and bag in one hand and stick in the other he began 
to run, taking no more
notice of Mascotti, who followed him for a time shouting some word which he did 
not understand.

The unexpected news had made his heart beat faster. Things must be very serious 
if they’d had to call
him  back  so  urgently.  Though  soon  tired  from  running  and  emotion  he  
raced  on,  as  it  seemed  that  his
mother’s life partly depended on the result of his efforts.

As he ran he suddenly thought with horror that he might be running to embrace a 
corpse; could that be
the announcement Mascotti had tried to shout after him?

Oh,  it  was  so  long  since  he  had  thought  of  this  woman  who  was  
dying!  She  had  not  written  for  three
weeks,  and,  all  intent  on  hanging  about  Annetta,  he  had  not  even  
noticed.  He  should  have  understood,
should he not, that only something really serious could have made her interrupt 
her usual regular flow of
letters?

Finally  he  reached  the  kitchen  garden  in  front  of  the  house.  A  tall 
 strong  old  woman  was  gathering
vegetables.

“What d’you want?” she asked him, straightening up in all her length.

Her face was quite new to him. The skin on it, only recognizable as a woman’s 
by its hairlessness, was
shrivelled by the sun, and its whole expression was concentrated in a pair of 
lively eyes.

“How’s my mother?” asked Alfonso impatiently.

“Oh!  Signor  Alfonso!  You  were  right  to  come,”  said  the  old  woman  
slowly,  coming  towards  him.  “The
Signora’s better, so the doctor says.”

She was better, and he had thought her dead! Anyway he was being granted time 
to kiss her and show
the immense affection welling in his heart. Fate was treating him better than 
he deserved.

“Go on in! Go on in!” said the old woman to him, looking longingly at her 
vegetables.

He did not want to and asked her to go in first to prepare the sick woman. Then 
seeing her hesitate, he
explained that she was first to warn his mother that there was someone there, 
then say it was someone
she would be surprised to see again, finally someone she would love to see 
again, her own son.

He  entered  the  house  with  her.  The  only  two  rooms  that  the  Nittis  
had  used  in  the  relatively  large
building  were  on  the  ground  floor.  They  were  the  only  two  with  
sufficient  light,  and  in  vain  had  the
defunct doctor attempted to accustom himself to a third as a study. It lacked 
light and had been too big
for  the  old  doctor  with  his  few  pieces  of  furniture  and  books,  and  
he  had  felt  lonely  in  it;  the  room
remained as a library in intention, but the doctor had never studied there 
again.

The entrance room was empty with only a truckle-bed in a corner; when Alfonso 
lived in it, everything
good the Nittis possessed had been put there. The walls had been hung with the 
few pictures which the
little  family  owned  and  with  many  reproductions  of  famous  pictures,  
some  by  Horace  Vemet  of  camels
with huge bodies and calm patient faces, beasts more attractive than the men 
leading them.

In  the  other  room  had  lived  Doctor  Nitti  and  his  wife.  It  was  full 
 of  big  old  pieces  of  simple  wooden
furniture  which  looked  well  in  that  big  room  and  enhanced  it.  
Between  the  two  windows  was  a  modem
pendulum  clock,  the  last  object  brought  home  by  old  Nitti.  During  
the  month  of  the  old  doctor’s  last
illness  his  family  had  dined  in  that  room  to  keep  him  company,  and  
the  table  was  set  in  the  middle;  it
should be there from what Signora Carolina had written to Alfonso.

The  sadness  which  assailed  him  in  that  first  room,  where  he  waited  
to  be  called  and  which  he
recognized in spite of there being no object in it to help his memories, was 
not entirely due to finding his
mother ill. He felt he was about to face one of the major disasters of his 
life. The death of his father had
been  a  big  enough  blow.  Everywhere  since  leaving  the  train,  in  the  
village  and  the  house  and  that  first
room,  he  had  felt  accompanied  by  memory.  What  a  lovely  childhood  he  
had  spent  there!  How  calm  and
protected!  The  family  must  certainly  have  been  through  some  bad  
patches  of  which  he  had  known
nothing,  either  during  his  early  youth  in  the  village  or  later  in  
town  where  for  some  time  old  Nitti  had
tried   in   vain   to   form   a   practice.   What   goodness,   what   
resignation!   Never   once   had   the   old   man
complained; the father’s experiences had not stolen the son’s illusions. “It’s 
only right!” he had said one
day when Alfonso brought a good school report home with him on holiday. “The 
luck I’ve had will come to
you.”  And  Alfonso  had  believed  him  because  he  saw  that  his  parents,  
who  were  old  and  experienced,
believed it themselves.

Now his mother called him with a cry in which he recognized both joy and 
weakness.

He  wanted  to  fling  himself  in  her  arms,  but  on  taking  a  step  into  
the  room  found  himself  in  complete
darkness and did not dare move forward.

He felt himself taken roughly by an arm and pulled to the right. His mother was 
in that bed, he realized.
From there she was asking with a stutter: “Is that you, Alfonso?”

“Are you better, mother?”

“Yes yes, much. Open the window, Giuseppina, so that I can see him.”

The  old  woman  threw  open  first  the  window  furthest  from  the  bed,  
and  in  the  half-darkness  he
recognized  his  mother’s  face,  which  seemed  little  changed.  She  was  
lying  supine,  looking  at  him  and
murmuring words in a low voice. Thinking her to be delirious he was alarmed and 
called her.

“I’m  a  believer,”  she  said  with  a  start.  “I’d  lost  hope  of  seeing  
you  again,  and  I  thank  God,  who  made
you get here so soon.” And she drew him to her with a smile.

He recognized that voice and manner, the gravity so ready to merge into 
sweetness and joking. He saw
once more the physiognomy of his father, who had thought and spoken in just 
that way, never so near to
smiling as when his face looked very serious and his words sounded deeply 
moved. During the long years
she had lived with him, she had assimilated his mannerisms.

Giuseppina opened the other window too, flinging it wide with one blow, 
noisily.


Not  even  then  did  Alfonso  realize  how  much  his  mother’s  face  had  
changed.  He  kissed  her  on  the
forehead, almost calmed.

“You’re looking fine.”
“I’m quite plump, eh?”

Roughly, Giuseppina’s grating low voice intervened.

“Yes indeed! I always say she looks fine and that the doctor who makes her stay 
in bed is an idiot.”

Signora Carolina had drawn Alfonso to her again and was passing her hand over 
his brown hair. “You’re
better  looking  too,  Rosina  would  never  have  thought  it  possible,”  she 
 said  looking  at  him  closely.  “We
were wrong to part. I’d surely be in the same state but would have been happier 
till now!”

At  that  distance  Alfonso  now  realized  what  made  his  mother  look  so  
fat.  She  was  swollen,  one  cheek
much  more  than  the  other,  and  on  the  swelling  was  reproduced  the  
pattern  of  rough  material  and  of
irregular marks of sewing on the pillowcase. Her face which had been oval now 
looked round. Such white
hair   as she still had made a crown around her face like a baby’s.

She realized what a painful impression the swelling must make on him and tried 
to attenuate it.
“Oh it doesn’t hurt me here!” and she touched her cheek with a contemptuous 
finger.

This produced a livid cavity which remained even when she took her finger away. 
That was nothing, she
explained,  it  did  not  hurt  her.  Where  she  was  suffering  was  in  her  
lungs,  and  she  had  not  enough  air.
Probably it was from that she would die. Finding herself so close to death, she 
was beginning to study its
mystery.

He tried to prove she was wrong, which should have been easy with her vague 
notions about her own
illness,  but  could  not  concentrate  on  deceiving  her.  She  was  dying,  
that  was  the  painful  thing,  not  her
knowing  it.  He  had  realized  there  was  no  longer  any  remedy.  He  
asked  about  other  symptoms,  always
hoping to find indications of health. In vain; her whole organism was in decay. 
For years she had suffered
from  disturbances  in  which  an  expert  eye  could  have  recognized  the  
organic  disease  which  was  their
cause.  Even  when  she  noticed  that  her  feet  were  slightly  swollen,  
she  had  not  called  in  a  doctor,  partly
from ignorance and mainly from economy. When she finally did consult one, he 
made her stay in bed; she
never got up again, saying she felt better than when up, and that she hated 
dressing and seeing her body
disfigured  like  that.  Now  she  could  no  longer  move.  What  had  not  
been  done  by  illness  had  been
completed  by  inertia  and  lack  of  fresh  air.  The  room  was  
suffocating.  When  for  an  instant  the  windows
had been opened, the breath of outside air reaching Alfonso was balsam compared 
to the air in the room.

“As you’re here I’ll get back to the garden. If you need me just knock on the 
window,” said Giuseppina
and went out.

“What  about  this  nurse?”  asked  Alfonso.  “Does  she  usually  leave  you  
as  much  alone  as  I  found  you  a
short time ago?”

His mother explained that she only had her in the house for a month, partly to 
take over the little jobs
that needed seeing to.

“I found her living in such squalor. She seemed so good and attentive.”

He noticed the past tense which suggested a present one in which her opinion 
about Giuseppina must
have   changed;   and   it   was   so   obvious   that   his   mother   was   
surrounded   by   carelessness   and   utter
indifference out of all proportion to the gravity of the illness from which she 
was dying that he could not
restrain himself and burst into tears.

She understood why he was crying and, with tears in her own eyes, at once 
hugged him in thanks for
this sign of affection to which he must have been little used.

“Now you’re here, and I need nothing else.”

To soothe her he produced another reason for his outburst of grief, and 
lamented his not having been
told before or he would have brought with him some competent doctor from town 
who would have cured
her quicker and saved her a great deal of suffering. But these words only 
touched her the more. She wept
and her poor half-lifeless body lay motionless as if nailed there; only her 
head drooped over the sheets to
be nearer him.

Alarmed by the state he had thrown her into, he assured her that very soon, 
with the help of the doctor
he intended calling that very day, she would be cured. For, unable to resign 
himself to the gravity of the
situation, however little hope there was, he wanted to ask Prarchi to come and 
tend to her.

But she had a stronger mind than her son. She forbade him to call in other 
doctors because she had had
enough  of  the  one  who  came  already.  She  wanted  to  die  in  peace  
and,  taking  one  of  Alfonso’s  hands
between hers, brought it to her cheek so as to lean her head against it, 
jerking herself on to one side with
an immense effort in doing so. Then she wept silently without a sob, hiding her 
eyes with her hand.

She  was  utterly  finished.  What  miracle  could  ever  again  set  to  
rights  that  body  which  that  movement
had shown to be so misshapen?

As  it  was  no  longer  a  question  of  saving  her,  he  made  an  effort  
to  distract  her.  He  asked  her  what
medicines she had been given as if he thought it important.

“I’m supposed to take that one,” she replied, “but I don’t want to because it 
harms me. After taking it I
not only have difficulty in breathing but feel my head going round … even 
convulsions sometimes.”

Her eyes were not yet free of tears before she raised her head and asked in a 
lively voice with an arch
smile:

“Will you soon be boss? How are things at the bank?”

At  that  moment  the  notary  came  in,  saying  he  was  exhausted  by  the  
race  Alfonso  had  made  him  run.
The good man was actually breathing quite calmly, and there was no trace of 
sweat on his low, wrinkled
forehead.


He rebuked Alfonso almost sharply for making Signora Carolina cry.
“You’re intelligent enough to realize it might do her harm.”

“I cried, but it wasn’t he who made me cry,” said Signora Carolina.

But Mascotti did not hear and repeated the same phrases, pleased maybe at a 
chance of showing zeal,
while  Alfonso  suffered  at  his  making  as  much  thoughtless  noise  in  
that  room  as  if  he  were  in  a  public
square.

With a determination of which he would not have thought her capable Signora 
Carolina interrupted his
shouts by declaring in a loud voice that she was quite well and pressed the 
pulse of Alfonso’s left hand;
his right was still beneath her head.

Alfonso longed to reprove Mascotti for not having sent a warning before and to 
make him realize that
he was not satisfied with the way the poor sick woman had been treated, but 
could not for the moment.
He felt a certain satisfaction at noticing that Mascotti himself must be 
feeling he was to blame, since he
tried to excuse himself. Without anyone questioning him on the reasons which 
had induced him to leave
Alfonso in ignorance of Signora Carolina’s illness, he said that it had seemed 
pointless to warn him since
she had always been in good hands, and he repeated this phrase as if to silence 
anyone who asserted the
contrary. Every day he paid her a visit, as he was only too pleased to, of 
course, and Giuseppina, whom he
had  put with her, was a good nurse.

This,  which  was  perhaps  true,  seemed  so  little  to  Alfonso  that  he  
could  not  contain  himself  and  he
reprimanded  him  before  his  mother:  “You  should  have  warned  me!”  and  
looked  at  him  angrily  to  make
him realize that he had other more serious things of which to complain.

“And what about your career?” asked Mascotti. “I, as your guardian, had to see 
it was not interrupted.”
Signora Carolina was not listening to this conversation.

“Now  I  understand”—she  seemed  to  have  been  studying  Alfonso  in  
silence  for  a  long  time—“now  I
understand  why  you  look  so  changed.  You’re  dressed  quite  differently.  
You’re  in  the  fashion.”  And  she
laughed with pleasure  at finding her son looking like  a gentleman. She  
admired each garment, from  his
stiff straw hat to the cut of his trousers, and so interrupted the discussion 
between Mascotti and Alfonso.
But not given up, thought Alfonso, who needed someone on whom to take his 
revenge.

Shortly  after,  in  came  Doctor  Frontini,  a  handsome  smartly  dressed  
young  man  with  an  oval  face,  too
regular features, and a thick brown moustache with gleams of gold. He was 
courteous to the sick woman
but Alfonso sensed her antipathy to the doctor and realized that she feared 
him. She swore she had taken
his potion twice that day, while to Alfonso she had confessed to not touching 
it since the night before.

As Alfonso later learned, Doctor Frontini was a young man who had started in a 
big city where, maybe
for  lack  of  patients,  he  had  been  unable  to  build  up  a  sufficient  
practice  and  had  fallen  back  on  the
wretched job of a ‘panel’ doctor; so he considered himself a misfit and 
disliked his patients.

After declaring that he found some improvement in the sick woman’s condition 
and recommending her
to take the medicine regularly, he left.

Alfonso ran after him and caught up with him in the garden. He wanted to hear 
his frank opinion.

Doctor Frontini declared that the illness was very serious indeed, but he did 
not exclude a possibility of
the  heart  regaining  regular  activity;  that  often  happened.  He  had  
noticed  the  immense  anguish  in
Alfonso’s face and added the last words out of pity. Seeing that the doctor was 
looking at him attentively,
Alfonso,  with  his  usual  speed  of  perception,  realized  that  the  
diagnosis  had  been  modified  to  save  his
feelings. He could not complain of that. He knew as well as the doctor did 
himself how serious the illness
was, and the latter’s opinion could not soothe him, but as the doctor had been 
so kind to him he felt he
must be deceived about him. Certainly, at that instant at least, Doctor 
Frontini was taking an interest in
the  patient.  Perhaps  that  was  an  advantage  obtained  for  Signora  
Carolina  by  Alfonso’s  arrival,  for  a
person’s life seems precious mainly because of the value others put on it.

Alfonso  spent  the  rest  of  the  day  by  his  mother’s  bedside.  He  
suffered  at  being  unable  to  go  to  the
village  and  greet  his  friends,  see  some  part  of  old  haunts  again,  
satisfy  his  yearning.  But  he  could  not
move away.

On  his  re-entering  the  room  Signora  Carolina  soon  expressed  a  wish  
to  sleep;  her  eyes  were  closing
with drowsiness. He threw himself on his father’s bed to watch her fall asleep. 
But it was more difficult
for Signora Carolina than she seemed to suppose. Just when she was about to 
fall asleep she came to with
a violent start. Sometimes the start was so violent that she flailed her arms 
like a person losing balance.

“I can’t!” she sighed, and, already resigned, asked him to talk to her so as to 
dissipate the drowsiness
which she could not satisfy. Readily he rose and sat by her bed. Instead of 
talking to her of other things as
she wanted, he tried to persuade her to make another effort to sleep. She 
closed her eyes to please him,
and  he  sat  still,  looking  at  her.  When  by  an  almost  imperceptible  
movement  of  her  arm  he  saw  that  she
was about to give another start, incapable of remaining a passive spectator, he 
seized her hand in his and
held  it  firmly.  Seeing  the  sick  woman  grew  quieter  he  gripped  her  
other  hand  too.  With  surprise  and
happiness he saw her fall into a quiet restorative sleep; but even then, if he 
relaxed his grip, she at once
seemed less secure.

So he could still bring some advantage to her, and this made him so happy that 
for some time he forgot
the doctor’s bad forecast and his own despair. It was long since he had felt a 
joy so intense and pure! He
thought with contempt of his sorrows in town. What importance could they have 
in comparison with the
feelings sweeping  over  him  by  the  poor  dying  woman’s  bed?  He  
remembered  with  pleasure  Francesca’s
remark  that  his  leaving  town  would  mean  breaking  off  his  relations  
with  Annetta  once  and  for  all.  Now,
beside this bed, he felt neither remorse nor regret. His love for Annetta and 
his repugnance for her both
seemed colourless. The whole affair lacked importance, except that it had 
chanced to bring him faster to


his post, beside his mother.

In the long hours which he spent there inert, he tried once more to reason out 
again the motives which
had induced him to leave Annetta; but as always his reasoning was nothing but 
dressed-up emotion. His
revulsion  for  Annetta,  he  said  to  himself,  was  explicable,  indeed  
natural.  There  was  nothing  in  common
between him and a silly woman whom he had come to know as closely as if he had 
been able to watch her
every action, hear her every word, know her every thought since birth. Her 
chief motive when she spoke
was a desire to please—when she wrote she was vain, vain and sensual when she 
loved. He compared her
with  the  poor  woman  whose  sleep  he  was  now  watching.  Even  in  that  
state  Signora  Carolina  betrayed
how much and in what manner she had loved her husband; so humbly that she still 
kept him as a living
memory and unconsciously imitated his gestures and ways, even something of his 
physiognomy.

It would have been torture for him to live with Annetta. She would have made 
him rich and held to her
right to enslave him; the vanity and sensuality which had flung her in his arms 
might lead to her doing the
same with others.

“Aren’t you very bored?” asked Signora Carolina, opening her eyes towards 
evening. In the weak light
of dusk those eyes were gleaming with laughter. She had not slept so well for a 
long time, and as she said
this, she gave a grateful kiss to Alfonso’s hands, which he could then 
withdraw.

“Who knows, maybe I’ll still live!” To talk like that she must be feeling much 
better, and it was enough
to rouse Alfonso’s hopes. He gave her a long kiss on the forehead and said they 
would always be together
for the rest of their lives, identifying his own condition with his mother’s to 
fortify her illusions. She did
not have any great hopes even then. She declared that she’d given up any idea 
of ever running or jumping
again, of ever leaving the house perhaps; she might always stay in bed, but she 
wanted to live.

While  she  had  supper  with  him,  he  looked  at  her  ecstatically,  amazed 
 at  watching  the  desire  to  live
awakening  in  her  so  promptly.  He  tried  not  to  see  that  the  hunger  
suddenly  aroused  in  his  mother  was
merely  the  natural  reaction  of  a  weakened  organism  making  a  last  
effort.  The  haste  with  which  she
swallowed the small amount of food showed how much she wanted to delude 
herself, to make quick use of
the truce granted her. Very soon she pushed the tray away with disgust. She 
stretched out on the bed, and
it was difficult to know if she was really pleased when she said, “It’s ages 
since I’ve eaten such a lot!”

Giuseppina announced a visit from the doctor, which disturbed Signora Nitti. 
Surprised and put out, she
said  that  this  was  the  first  time  he  had  felt  a  need  to  come  and  
see  her  twice  in  one  day.  Alfonso
laughingly asked her if she wanted to criticize him for coming twice that day 
or only once on others. She
replied disdainfully that he understood nothing about her illness and would 
have done better not to have
come at all.

Then  she  agreed  to  the  visit,  unable  or  not  bothering  to  hide  that  
it  annoyed  her.  The  doctor  was
attentive,  asked  her  for  news,  gave  her  advice,  but  in  reply  
received  only  monosyllables,  and  found  his
advice received with silence interrupted by an unenthusiastic exclamation or 
two:

“Yes … yes … I’ll try this too if you want me to.”

Alfonso  tried  to  make  up  for  his  mother’s  rudeness  by  himself  giving 
 the  answers  that  the  doctor
wanted  from  the  sick  woman,  but  he  saw  from  the  latter’s  pallor  and 
 embarrassment,  and  from  the
sudden  interruption  of  the  visit,  that  his  intention  had  not  
succeeded.  Alarmed  by  the  anger  which  he
thought must be hidden beneath the pretence of coldness, he ran after him and 
with the frankness which
he thought his best policy asked if his mother’s behaviour had put him out. He 
awaited the reply with real
anxiety. There being no other doctors in the neighbourhood he was anxious to 
keep in with this one. The
young  doctor  made  the  mistake  of  hesitating  for  a  second  and  then  
the  even  greater  one  of  saying
contemptuously as he smoothed his big moustache affectionately with a hand:

“Oh! These old people lose their heads, particularly when they’re ill.” Then he 
did not reply to Alfonso’s
promise that he would induce his mother to be more respectful towards those who 
deserved it. The young
doctor was offended and obviously intended to show it.

On returning to Signora Carolina Alfonso tried to convince her that Doctor 
Frontini was worth treating
better.

“Yes, yes,” she replied, bored. “I’ll treat him better; but not twice a day,” 
and she forgot the doctor at
once.

She  had  no  wish  to  sleep  any  more,  and  they  spent  half  the  night  
making  plans  for  the  future.  She
would come and live with him in the city. To lure her into hoping and to make 
her believe in the sincerity
of his own hopes, he described life in town and even tried to embellish it. 
Then he found himself telling
her  most  of  his  own  adventures  there  and,  since  it  was  the  most  
important,  could  not  wholly  avoid  his
adventure with Annetta. He described his friendship with old Signor Maller, 
with Macario, and then how
he  spent  his  evenings  writing  the  novel  with  Annetta.  This  girl  
Annetta  was  immediately  suspected  by
Signora Nitti, and he told her she was very ugly and, what was more, engaged to 
a cousin; he could not
have better assumed a tone of indifference.

In  town  they  would  both  live  happily  and  comfortably,  because  the  
money  from  selling  the  house  and
garden  would  help.  They  would  not  go  to  the  Lanuccis,  who  were  too  
gloomy:  they  would  keep  to
themselves  because  they  wanted  to  live  happily.  Perhaps  neither’s  
hopes  were  sincere,  but  they  were
listening  to  lovely  music.  His  words  sounded  almost  reasonable.  Why,  
in  leaving  the  country  behind,
should she not leave her illness behind too?

Soon  they  were  recalled  to  sad  reality.  For  a  quarter  of  an  hour  
Signora  Carolina  succeeded  in  hiding
that she was in pain. To questions by Alfonso, who had noticed her 
restlessness, she replied that she was
well,  though  agitated.  She  pressed  Alfonso’s  hand  as  if  seeking  
relief  by  that  grip  and  kept  her  eyes
closed,  warning  that  she  wanted  to  sleep.  But  this  resistance  lasted  
a  short  time,  and  she  sat  up  with  a


cry of pain.

“I  can’t  bear  any  more!”  she  muttered  dully.  Her  breathing  was  fast  
and  short.  “Here,”  she  said,
pointing to her chest, “the air doesn’t reach beyond here.” Only from this did 
he realize what she felt.

He  helped  her  to  get  out  of  bed  as  she  asked,  and  to  sit  on  a  
comfortable  armchair  in  which  old  Nitti
had spent idle hours in the open air and which now was next to the bed, ready 
for the sick woman’s worst
hours. He covered her as she let her head fall back in a cold sweat: apparently 
she did not see what he
was  doing.  From  time  to  time  she  gave  a  cry  in  an  altered  voice  
or,  with  a  supreme  effort,  brought  out
some complaint or curse.

She  did  not  find  so  much  voice  to  speak  to  him  as  she  did  to  
complain.  Twice  he  did  not  understand
what she was asking. She wanted air, she wanted him to open the window; after 
he had understood and
was hesitating for fear of her catching cold, she murmured with a glance of 
exasperated resentment:

“I’ll open it.”

She did not do so because she could not manage to get out of the chair.

From the window which he had thrown open, air now entered in abundance. In 
spite of his agitation he
felt  it  enter  her  gasping  lungs  with  relief.  His  mother  continued  to 
 breathe  hurriedly  and  with  shallow
breaths.

He remembered he might need Giuseppina. He ran into the next room and found her 
sleeping with the
covers pulled up to her chin. He called her with a cry, but in vain, then 
impatiently decided to shake her
by  an arm.

“What’s up?” she muttered, obviously still half-asleep and struggling to go on 
sleeping because she was
trying to unloose his hand and was huddling up against the wall.

“Mother’s bad. Get up and light the fire.”
“What’s the use? It will pass by itself.”

She was certainly nearly awake, but used the little capacity for reason so far 
acquired to show him he
would do better to leave her in bed.

“Get up!” replied Alfonso imperiously, but had to rush back at a shout from his 
mother.

Signora Carolina had got back into bed alone and was pressing her mouth on the 
pillow. She now asked
him  to  close  the  window  as  the  warmth  might  do  her  good,  and  soon  
after  made  him  reopen  it  again,
always surprised that she got no relief from so many efforts.

“I’ll have the fire lit. Would you like some tea? It may soothe you.”

“Yes, yes!” she cried with delight as if his suggestion would make her feel 
better immediately.

Giuseppina was still in bed and asleep again. Furious, he pulled violently at 
an arm dangling out of the
bed; it was the only part of her which had obeyed his first call. Giuseppina, 
annoyed now and wide awake,
began shouting that it was a shame that she was not allowed to sleep after such 
a hard day’s work. Then
she became alarmed.

“Are you mad?” she asked in a whisper, seeing him rush about the room and fling 
her skirt at her.
“Go and make some tea at once!” he yelled furiously. “Or I’ll throw you out of 
that door!”
Without another word she began getting up.

His  mother’s  terrible  panting  had  lessened;  she  was  still  breathing  
fast  but  no  longer  complained.  A
little colour had returned to her face. Supine like that with arms inert she 
seemed to be sleeping. He shut
the  window,  taking  care  to  make  no  noise.  When  Giuseppina  came  with  
the  tea  he  tried  to  prevent  her
going  up  to  the  bed,  but  Signora  Carolina  called  her.  She  drank  
some  spoonfuls  of  tea  without  opening
her eyes and Giuseppina, seeing her calm, said harshly: “So it wasn’t so 
serious!”

“Out with you!” yelled Alfonso, furious at seeing her so indifferent.

“Why  do  you  get  so  angry?”  asked  Signora  Carolina  when  Giuseppina  
had  left.  “It’s  no  use!  She  does
not understand.”

So she too had suffered from the other’s idiocy and indifference.

For  another  half-hour  she  did  not  move,  but  when  he  was  just  hoping 
 she  had  fallen  asleep,  he  heard
her talking. She was thinking out aloud.

“I didn’t say anything,” she replied to his question. Then without his asking 
anything more she added,
“I was thinking how silly it was to make plans for the future when I’m in this 
state.”

He  tried  to  encourage  her  and  for  lack  of  better  arguments  spoke  of 
 the  medicine  prescribed  by  the
doctor. That should make her well, and as she had never taken it as regularly 
as she should, she must try.
He was the first to be convinced by his own words.

His  chief  duty  in  fact,  what  others  had  neglected,  was  to  convince  
her  to  follow  the  treatment.  If
salvation was still possible it could come only from that.

He  put  a  spoonful  of  the  medicine  to  her  lips  before  she  had  
agreed.  Shrugging  her  shoulders  she  let
herself be convinced.

An hour later she felt better.

“Yes,  yes,”  she  said  to  calm  Alfonso’s  enthusiasm.  “Last  month  too  
the  medicine  helped  me  the  first
time I took it, but then it only did me harm.”

He  stretched  out,  fully  dressed,  on  his  father’s  bed,  intending  not  
to  fall  asleep.  But  sleep  overcame
him, and he awoke only in broad daylight.

“How are you?” he asked his mother, who had been looking at him as he slept.

“Better, better!” she replied with a smile of gratitude. “I took another 
spoonful of the medicine and feel
slight relief.”

Then she asked him if he did not want to see the village and greet old friends. 
She assured him that she
could remain alone for an hour or two.


He told Giuseppina, whom he found busy again among the vegetables, to look 
after his mother, and she
promised to do so. He spoke gently. Alarmed at the sight of him the peasant 
woman hurriedly told him she
was gathering herbs for dinner. She was not simple, but preferred working on 
the land to tending a sick
woman, and whoever had made her a nurse was really to blame.

One side of the house overlooked the main road and was connected to it by a 
track made by the feet of
passers-by.

The  country  was  still  white  with  the  frost  which  the  autumn  sun  had 
 not  yet  melted.  Seen  from  there
the  village  looked  much  more  insignificant  than  it  really  was;  it  
seemed  only  a  couple  of  plain  rows  of
houses.  A  bend  of  the  main  road  hid  the  less  regular  but  more  
populated  part.  On  the  valley  side  was
another street of half the length of the main street to which it was parallel, 
and next to that a disordered
tangle of dirty shacks where the poorest of the population lived. In its small 
way the village contained in
embryonic form every city district. Alfonso felt excited and hastened his step 
on seeing at a window the
dark  head  of  Rosina,  his  first  love.  He  no  longer  loved  her,  that  
was  certain,  but  it  gave  him  a  joyous
sensation to see her again!

She looked after an old relative with whom she lived, but had so little to do 
in the house that she lived
like a lady, better than any other girl in the village. Alfonso had danced with 
her at a fiesta and chosen her
from  all  the  others  because  he  thought  her  pretty  and  also  because  
she  was  more  cultured  and  her
clothes  seemed  superior.  Then  a  friendship  had  developed  between  them; 
 they  exchanged  a  few  words
daily, she at the window and he on the road. Some evenings they would chat just 
beyond the houses and
out of the village, but even in the complete darkness he had not risked kissing 
her hand. He had paid her
exaggerated  compliments  on  her  beauty,  but  not  even  told  her  he  
loved  her.  Rosina  was  not  the
culmination  of  his  ideal  and  at  the  time  he  had  not  given  up  the  
chance  of  reaching  it.  So  he  had  never
intended  the  matter  to  go  further,  while  it  was  said  in  the  
village,  so  Signora  Carolina  had  written  to
Alfonso a number of times, that Rosina had been very downcast at his departure.

He went closer, surprised she had not recognized him at once though she had 
seen him.
“Signorina, don’t you recognize me?”

“Oh,  Signor  Alfonso!”  said  Rosina  with  calm  surprise,  and  she  gave  
him  a  slight  hesitant  bow,  either
because she really had not recognized him or had decided not to.

“Won’t you even give me your hand?”
“Here.”

But she did not give it him yet. Before leaning out of the window she looked 
right and left to make sure
no one saw her.

“How’s Signora Carolina?” she asked, withdrawing her hand which she had left, 
limp, for only a second
in Alfonso’s.

“Bad! Very bad!” said Alfonso, oddly moved by those black eyes and the smooth 
hair over her temples
and ears. What she lacked in dress sense and speech gave her a haughtiness 
which made so much more
desirable the friendly smile with which she had been lavish at other times.

“Are you still staying here?”

“No!” replied Alfonso. “Only as long as mother can’t move because of her 
illness; then we’re settling in
town.”

“I’m engaged,” she said with simplicity.

As she  had  not  been  asked for  this  information,  it  was obvious  she  
was  giving  it to  warn  him  that  she
cared very little about his leaving the village.

He almost forgot to ask her who the happy bridegroom was.
“Gianni.”

Gianni  was  the  son  of  Creglingi  the  grocer;  a  good-looking  young  man 
 who  looked  after  his  father’s
land, as the latter could not leave the shop where he made his money. Rosina 
was making a good match,
certainly better than if she had married Alfonso.

“Congratulations!” said Alfonso, rather too late for them to seem sincere.
“Remember me to Signora Carolina!” exclaimed Rosina and suddenly withdrew.

He  soon  saw  the  reasons  for  her  flight.  From  a  turn  of  the  street  
had  appeared  Mascotti  the  notary,
accompanied  by  Faldelli,  owner  of  one  of  the  two  taverns  in  the  
place.  He  was  an  old  man  with  dirty
clothes  hanging  from  skinny  limbs.  He  must  have  been  cold  because  
his  hands  were  plunged  into  his
jacket sleeves.

They greeted him, and he went up to them. Faldelli raised an arm, drew his hand 
out of the sleeve and
shook Alfonso’s in a strong short grip; then he put his hand back into his 
sleeve. He was not polite, and
when Mascotti asked Alfonso after his mother, he drew aside and looked around.

Mascotti’s courteous question made Alfonso think that now was the chance to 
reproach him for taking
so little care of Signora Carolina.

He began very seriously to describe his bad night and the fright he’d had; 
then, in a very bitter, angry
tone, spoke of the behaviour of Giuseppina to whom his mother’s life had been 
entrusted.

Mascotti must have realized that it was he himself Alfonso wanted to get at. He 
said airily but firmly:
“Oh we’re all a bit lazy. Giuseppina must have been taking it easy now you’re 
here, as there’s no need

for four people round a sick bed!”

It  was  not  how  he  had  defended  himself  the  day  before,  and  this  
surprised  Alfonso.  Now  he  saw  him
resolute  and  obviously  prepared,  for  he  had  understood  and  rejected  
the  attack  at  once.  He  no  longer
denied  that  little  care  had  been  taken  of  Signora  Carolina  but  
treated  the  whole  matter  as  of  little
importance. He was her executor, but could it be proved that this made it his 
duty to look after Signora


Carolina’s health? Alfonso feared that if he said some harsh words to him, such 
as those he had thought
up during the night in his anger at Giuseppina, Mascotti might give a sharp 
answer. But he was silent.

The   notary   now   told   him   that   Faldelli   had   saved   some   
capital   and   intended   to   buy   land.   This
communication seemed to be a preliminary to others which could be more 
important for Alfonso. Faldelli
interrupted  to  bid  goodbye.  He  said  to  Mascotti  as  he  shook  his  
hand,  “There’s  no  hurry,  you  know,
Notary!”

He hurried off towards his tavern, which faced Creglingi’s shop in the 
triangular piazza.

“Are you taking a stroll to see your childhood haunts?” said Mascotti 
good-humouredly. “I’ll come with
you as long as you don’t run.”

It  was  a  teasing  allusion  to  the  moment  when  Alfonso  had  lost  his  
head  at  the  news  of  his  mother’s
state.

Every  house  on  the  main  street  had  remained  unaltered,  with  colours  
unchanged  because  they  could
not  fade  more,  the  same  shop-signs,  some  windows  always  shut,  others  
always  open.  To  Alfonso  the
village seemed as old as some object in a museum which is only touched for 
repairs necessary to keep it
as    it was. The inhabitants’ activity was all outside the village, in the 
fields.

Only  one  house  had  been  changed,  with  a  floor  added,  and  the  new  
building  could  be  distinguished
from the old by the blackened lime covering the latter. It was now inhabited by 
Silini the  baker, but the
house was still called Carli’s, after the family who had owned it before.

In  his  thoughts  Alfonso  easily  took  away  from  this  house  all  that  
had  been  added  and  saw  it  smaller
again,  dark  and  sad,  a  house  of  misfortune  in  which  every  member  of 
 the  family  except  one  had  died
within a few days of each other; two boys with whom Alfonso had played, a child 
of three and her father,
who  had  been  a  close  friend  of  old  Nitti,  neat  and  always  dressed  
in  such  a  clean  white  smock  that  it
never  showed  the  flour  scattered  over  it.  Alfonso  remembered  all  the  
details  of  that  disaster,  which  had
left  an  indelible  trace  on  his  youth.  The  fact  of  all  those  strong  
and  healthy  people  being  created  and
destroyed uselessly had given him his first religious doubts.

One evening old Nitti had come home later than usual and told him that Guido 
Carli, the younger of the
sons, had caught typhus so seriously that the doctor thought he would not pull 
through. The day before,
Alfonso  had  spoken  to  the  boy  who  was  now  dying.  The  Nittis  then  
lived  opposite  the  Carlis,  and  often
during the night Alfonso went to the window to look at the dark brown house in 
which only one room was
lit, the one in which a struggle was taking place with death.

A  few  days  later  the  boy  died,  and  while  Alfonso  was  wondering  how  
to  show  his  sympathy  to  his
surviving friend, to console him for his brother’s loss and console himself, he 
was told that the latter too
and his sister and father had been struck by the same terrible disease. Every 
day a coffin left the house;
the first held the girl’s body, the second the father’s, while the building 
remained mute and indifferent as
if merely some merchandise had gone.

Only when there was no bedside at which to watch did a window finally open 
behind the  coffin of  the
last son, and there, held back by two men whom he had never seen, appeared the 
mother shouting that
she wanted to jump out of the window so that she could join her family. She was 
still a young woman. She
asked  them  to  leave  her  and  seemed  amazed  that  they  should  hold  her 
 back.  Alfonso  too  hated  the
violence of those two men who were preventing her from dying.

The  house  was  put  up  for  sale,  but  no  one  wanted  to  buy  it  after  
such  disasters  had  happened  there,
and  eventually  it  was  sold  for  very  little  to  the  Silinis  who  had  
just  come  to  settle  in  the  village.  Even
Signora Carolina would not hear of buying it, though the Nittis would have done 
a very much better deal
by buying that house instead of the larger one so far out of the village.

Certainly the notary too, as he passed in front of it, thought of the contract 
for that building, because,
ingenuously  making  Alfonso  think  of  the  similarity  between  the  two  
business  deals,  he  said  to  him:
“Faldelli tells me he’d be willing to buy your house.”

Alfonso started. “It’s not for sale!” he said shortly.
“What d’you want to do with it, then?”

The  notary’s  tactlessness  made  Alfonso  realize  how  much  more  the  man  
had  been  influenced  by  his
long sojourn among peasants than by his university studies.

“What about my mother?”

The  notary  had  been  on  another  train  of  thought  and  was  obviously  
surprised  that  Signora  Carolina
should still be considered as alive. With good grace he resigned himself to 
this fiction.

“Your mother told me she intended to live with you!”

“I’ll  think  it  over!”  said  Alfonso  sadly.  The  night  spent  by  his  
mother  had  destroyed  all  his  hopes,  and
Mascotti’s  words  had  made  him  turn  his  thoughts  to  the  conclusions  
to  be  drawn  from  that  state  of
things. In fact what would he do with the house when alone?

“Is old Signora Doritti still alive?”

This  local  character,  hardworking,  formerly  always  labouring  in  the  
fields  or  at  home  where  she  did
everything  rather  than  call  in  help  from  outside—so  that  it  was  said 
 in  the  village  that  she  even  sat  on
eggs  with  broody  hens  to  hatch  chicks  quicker—used  to  live,  Alfonso  
remembered,  in  a  little  coloured
house, greenish round the windows, dirty grey on walls crumbled here and there. 
It was said that the hut
had not fallen down only because it could not decide which side should go 
first, but its foundations were
solid though rather out of line with the other houses.

On the ground floor of that house, Doritti, the old woman’s husband, had for 
many years kept a grocer’s
shop and was said to have made a heap of money. Then Creglingi had arrived and, 
with his better-stocked
shop in the centre of the village, had taken away Doritti’s customers. Doritti 
could not believe at first that


he could be allowed to be ruined in that way; beside himself with rage he 
quarrelled with half the village,
with Creglingi and with the customers whom he surprised in the act of betraying 
him, that is in making
purchases in his rival’s shop, beside which he would often stand in order to 
catch them. Then he calmed
down.  He  waited  without  impatience  for  the  two  or  three  customers  he 
 still  had  to  consume  the  last
provisions  in  his  shop,  then  shut  the  doors  and  took  down  the  sign. 
 The  two  old  folk  had  lived  on  for
another  few  years  together  without  talking  to  a  soul,  because  the  
wrong  done  made  them  hate  all  the
inhabitants of the village. The old man died without seeing a doctor, and from 
then on his widow only left
the  house on Sundays to go to Mass, dressed in black silk covered with twirls 
of black embroidery which
made the material look very heavy. As this was a weekday, she was sure to be 
behind a window knitting or
weaving. She was an old soul just like her home, small, bent, but vigorous.

Alfonso had forgotten these two old creatures and on remembering them was 
surprised as at something
new.

“They must have led happy lives though.”

On  leaving  the  village  in  that  direction  there  was  another  mile  or  
so  of  patchy  green,  then  a  stone
hillock marking the stretch of stones.

The cemetery was behind the village on a small hill, all fresh bright green 
interspersed now and again
with  white  stones.  There  at  least  the  dead  slept  very  close  to  the  
living,  and  death  seemed  less  of  a
separation.

Mascotti wanted to come with him to see how his mother was, then stopped at the 
door of the house.
“It’s  too  depressing,”  he  asserted.  When  Alfonso  came  out  to  tell  
him  that  his  mother  was  worse,  he

said “Poor boy” seeing him so overwhelmed. But in spite of his emotion he 
rushed off to warm himself up
and on reaching the main road skipped along it like a young man.

Signora Carolina was definitely poorly, and Alfonso chided himself for having 
left her alone for a whole
hour.

Feeling relief after taking the medicine given by Alfonso, she had naturally 
attributed her improvement
to it and taken another spoonful half-an-hour later according to the 
prescription. But she was gripped by a
feeling  very  different  from  that  which  she  had  had  in  the  night  but 
 no  less  agonizing.  This  was  utter
exhaustion,  the  feeling  that  every  one  of  her  organs  was  rejecting  
life.  Her  forehead  was  pouring  with
sweat  as  during  a  heart-attack,  but  her  eyes,  instead  of  looking  
dull,  were  shining  and  dilated  with
anguish. She could give Alfonso no explanations, but his words of sympathy made 
her cry.

“That diabolical medicine!” he muttered, forgetting the benefits it had brought 
her.

It  was  a  very  bad  day,  as  it  had  been  a  bad  night.  She  never  
declared  herself  any  better  because
towards evening she was again overcome by breathlessness which lasted almost 
the whole night.

From then on there were no improvements, not even slight ones. The worse the 
sick woman became the
more she clung to life, and it was always easy to persuade her to take the 
medicine which, according to
the  doctor,  was  her  only  chance  of  life.  Her  suffering  was  constant, 
 either  from  her  illness  or  from  its
remedy.  Another  sign  of  her  increased  affection  for  life  was  her  
polite  attitude  to  Doctor  Frontini.  Her
state  was  such  that  it  had  broken  down  all  her  resistance,  and  she  
forgot  all  her  antipathies.  She  had
been told that salvation could come from Doctor Frontini, and she believed it.

So  the  doctor  came  more  often  and  stayed  for  hours,  chatting  to  
Alfonso,  usually  about  other  things
than Signora Carolina’s illness. He had been unable to display his knowledge 
with her and tried to show it
by talking of other subjects. Alfonso was glad to see him stay for long periods 
in the sick woman’s room; if
during  that  time  Signora  Carolina  felt  worse,  even  though  Frontini  
could  scarcely  help  her  at  all,  it  was
better that he was there.

Mascotti  often  came  but  stopped  at  the  door,  called  out  some  words  
of  encouragement,  but  did  not
come in. The sick woman noticed his repugnance to entering and asked Alfonso:

“Do I stink such a lot that he avoids me so?”

The  atmosphere  in  that  room  was  becoming  heavier  and  heavier,  and  
even  Alfonso  felt  relieved  to  go
out into the open for half-an-hour. The room could no longer be ventilated; in 
the last few days there had
been  a  snowfall,  and  the  temperature  had  dropped  so  low  that  the  
window-panes  were  covered  with  a
streaky film of ice. Even when she felt her breath failing, the sick woman no 
longer asked for the window
to    be opened as before; when she had hoped for relief in fresh air, she had 
been nearly killed by the biting
cold.

It  was  a  strange  life  he  led  in  that  room,  busy  all  day  either  
convincing  the  sick  woman  that  her
sickness was not serious or trying to alleviate it. One day was so like another 
that he could not tell how
long he had been in the country. How far away seemed the time of his 
love-making to Annetta!

One day Marco the postman brought him two letters. One, according to Marco who, 
on his long rounds,
amused  himself  studying  the  handwriting  on  envelopes,  must  be  from  a  
woman.  On  receiving  it  Alfonso
had  an  unpleasant  sensation—not  everyone  considered  that  enough  time  
had  passed  for  persons  and
events to be forgotten.

The other was from a man, in the familiar writing of Sanneo, but signed by 
Cellani. This turned out to
be  a   letter   from   the  Maller   bank.   In   the  cold   and   measured   
style   used  by   the   bank   in   business
communications  with  its  clients,  it  informed  him  that  the  managers  
had  learnt  of  the  seriousness  of  his
mother’s   illness   from   the   telegram   sent   to   him   signed   
Mascotti,   and   so   they   were   spontaneously
extending  the  leave  granted  him  from  a  fortnight  to  a  month.  The  
bureaucratic  style  of  this,  signed  by
Cellani  with  the  stamp  he  used  for  notes  to  cashiers,  did  not  
surprise  Alfonso.  He  was  grateful  for  the
month’s leave and at once read out the letter to Signora Carolina, who, being 
in a moment of desperation,
muttered dully, “A month’s enough!”


The other letter was from Francesca.

What I foresaw has already happened or is about to. I am not sure exactly what 
point negotiations have
reached between father and daughter, but these are going on daily, and the 
proof of their being already
quite  advanced  is  that  Annetta  says  nothing  to  me.  I  suppose  that  
secretly  she  already  agrees  with  her
father, but as she was still genuinely yours until a few days ago, maybe she is 
ashamed of having entirely
forgotten you so soon.

Immediately  after  your  departure  she  had  a  long  talk  to  Signor  
Maller;  according  to  Santo,  who  was
listening at the keyhole, he shouted a lot, so much that Annetta cried for the 
first time in her life I think.
Then, finding she did not talk to me, I looked at her with an air of reproof 
which cost me a great effort, as
does  everything  that  I  do  to  help  you.  Annetta  told  me  that  she  
still  loved  you,  but  would  have  a  great
struggle  with  her  father  to  get  his  consent  to  your  union.  So  she  
asked  me  to  write  and  tell  you  to  find
some excuse to stay in the country longer.

I warn you, Alfonso, her not wanting to write directly is a bad sign. I agreed 
to do what she asked but
did not write, hoping to find you’d arrive unannounced today when your leave is 
up; I know how you must
be counting the days. But you have not come! You’re piling mistake upon mistake 
until you ruin yourself. I
am writing to you with a last warning. By leaving at once you may still be in 
time, for nothing is lost yet.
Annetta is hesitating, struggling between her wish to please her father, who is 
ranting away, and her love
for you, because she has loved you. Now I can guarantee nothing, and on your 
arrival you might be told
she’s engaged to Macario. I don’t know if this letter of mine will achieve the 
aim for which it was written.
I’ve  done  far  more  than  my  duty  to  you.  If  you  hesitate  to  leave  
in  spite  of  this  warning,  it’ll  be  quite
useless for you to reply or write to Annetta. I expect no words or excuses from 
you. They would be quite
useless. Only your presence here can save you, save us.

What she called a warning looked to him very much like a plea for help, and it 
shook him. Of course he
could  not  even  think  of  leaving  the  country  and  abandoning  his  dying 
 mother;  so  he  was  saved  from  all
doubt,  and  however  much  Francesca  warned  and  called  he  could  not  
listen  to  her.  But  it  was  very  sad
that, by an act which had seemed natural and necessary to him but would have 
seemed unreasonable to
any  other  man,  he  had  set  out  on  the  road  that  Francesca  was  so  
energetically  pursuing.  Instead  of
finding  him  an  ally  in  the  struggle  which  she  should  win  in  the  
name  of  honesty  and  justice,  he  had
blocked  her  way.  Maller  had  seduced  her,  and  it  was  right  that  he  
should  marry  her.  This  was  Alfonso’s
only remorse. He regretted betraying not Annetta but Francesca.

For an hour he sat by his mother’s bedside absorbed in his thoughts.

“Does that letter worry you a lot?” asked Signora Carolina, who had been 
watching him a long time.

She spoke little because it was an effort for her, and the few words which she 
said sometimes came out
a long time after she thought them. Perhaps she had been watching his face from 
the moment in which he
had abandoned himself to reflection.

He started.

“No!” he replied. “It’s a man I know gossiping about things that make me 
laugh.”

She asked nothing more. It cost her a great deal of effort to turn her 
attention to outside matters, and
deceiving her was easy.

Francesca’s letter did bring some good news though. As she had foreseen, his 
departure from town was
equivalent  to  renouncing  Annetta.  Now  he  was  sure  that  the  one  
jilted  would  be  himself,  and  this  role
pleased him much more than that of the betrayer’s. He guessed that Annetta 
would hate being the jilted
party and be far more pleased to leave him first. So he had no regrets in that 
respect.

Settling  down  to  write  the  answer  he  must  give  to  Francesca,  
although  she  had  not  asked  for  one,  he
realized that, to make it effective, and also without attracting Frencesca’s 
hatred, his main difficulty was
to convince her that his mother was seriously ill. The two women seemed to have 
had no news about this
from the bank. Eventually he struck the right note. Avoiding all artifice he 
was brief, like someone giving
true facts without bothering to adduce proofs of their truth. He said that his 
mother was in danger of her
life and that for the moment he could think of nothing else. He ended with a 
phrase which seemed a real
inspiration.  He  pretended  not  to  believe  that  his  presence  in  town  
could  be  as  necessary  as  Francesca
asserted.

“Annetta loves me, as you confirm in your letter. Then why should she leave me? 
Anyway, here I’m only
doing my duty.”

After sending the letter he felt relieved, a relief, if less intense, like the 
one he had felt at his departure
from town. After a plunge back into urban intrigues he was out in the country 
again, and the sight of his
mother’s corpse-like face could not quite rob him of the joy of being safe from 
such intrigues.

That  evening,  during  an  instant  of  peace  after  a  day  of  terrible  
suffering,  she  asked  him,  “Have  you
written to your girl? Don’t deny it now, you’d be wrong if you didn’t.”

But a gleam of jealousy flickered in her dull eyes.

He did not deny it. Knowing himself apt to feel bitter regrets, he had been 
careful during all those days
to  behave  so  that  he  would  never  have  to  reprove  himself  for  any  
brusque  word  towards  the  dying
woman. He must show confidence, satisfy her curiosity but not tell her lies 
because he might be sorry for
those too. He did not tell her the whole truth, from respect for the secrets of 
others, or at least that’s how
he excused himself. He told her he had loved a girl, but found she was such a 
flirt that he wanted to cut
her out of his heart, which he was managing to do without great difficulty.

“Is it Signorina Lanucci?” asked Signora Carolina with a forced smile.


“No!” he replied, as serious as if he were in the confessional. “It’s a rich 
girl you don’t know.”
“Very rich?”

“Mm! Richer than me, anyway!”

He did not want to confess that by leaving the girl whom he had declared a 
flirt he was also rejecting a
fortune, for had she known that, his mother would have thought him in the 
wrong.

That evening she spoke no more of it, but she must have reflected a long time 
about his words.

“You  obviously  don’t  love  her,”  she  said  to  him  the  next  day,  “or  
you’d  never  have  been  so  quick  to
realize she was a flirt or unable to forgive her when you did.”

After an attack of coughing in which she seemed about to suffocate at any 
moment, in her gratitude at
his help, she said, “Don’t love her, don’t love any of them. Women aren’t worth 
it.”

Although he had thought himself quite indifferent to the intrigues in town, 
after receiving Francesca’s
letter he found his thoughts dwelling on them for hours longer than on his 
mother. If, as Francesca told
him in a tone which admitted of no doubt, Annetta was leaving him and marrying 
her cousin, what would
her  feelings  for  him  be?  Hatred,  surely.  If  the  memory  of  Annetta’s  
fall  disgusted  even  him,  what  effect
could it produce in the mind of an Annetta married to another? Shame and 
hatred; maybe, for fear of the
secret being divulged, active hatred; she would get him thrust out of the 
Maller bank and try to make life
in  town  impossible  for  him.  How  should  he  react  when  faced  with  
such  hatred?  Defend  himself?  But  he
had  no  right  to,  it  seemed  to  him.  He  imagined  all  sorts  of  
persecutions  and  was  shaken  by  imagined
disasters ahead.

His mother saw that he had tears in his eyes. “Why are you crying?”
“My eyes are smarting, I’m not crying!”

She  was  silent  and  thought  he  was  crying  at  seeing  her  suffer,  
while  his  tears  were  flowing  at  the
thought of being fired from the bank with curses from Maller and Cellani, 
seeing himself leaving it with
head bowed under a weight of guilt, though not that guilt that would be 
publicly held against him.

Often when his mother needed him, she must have called him a number of times 
before he heard.

The poor woman had constant need of help because she could no longer turn 
around in bed by herself.
Sores  had  formed  in  a  number  of  places  from  constant  lying-down,  and 
 the  pain  of  pressure  on  those
parts  of  her  body  made  her  perpetually  long  to  change  position.  
Alfonso  found  an  ingenious  way  of
making the difficult adjustment. He would bend halfway down the bed, and she 
would then grip his neck
with both hands—then he’d move over in the direction where she would lean after 
turning; and the sick
woman rearranged herself thus suspended, then just withdrew one hand from his 
neck. The only time she
felt  great  relief  was  when,  clinging  to  Alfonso’s  neck,  nothing  but  
her  feet  rested  on  the  bed.  While  she
hung there, he tore himself from his daydreams. But when he was merely 
sustaining her while she cried
and  sobbed  as  she  made  initial  efforts  to  raise  herself,  he  was  
again  dreaming  of  Maller,  Cellani  and
Annetta.

Very soon, however, Signora Carolina’s sufferings increased in such a way that 
they no longer left him
time  to  dream,  for  she  had  not  a  second’s  respite  and  needed  him  
continuously,  both  for  his  strength  to
support  her,  but  also  for  his  mind  to  find  new  ways  of  helping  her 
 distress.  He  could  no  longer  dream,
could not even reflect, because the imminence of the event nearing its climax 
beneath his eyes hampered
his every faculty.

Signora  Carolina’s  most  painful  disturbances  came  from  dislocations  of  
her  nervous  system.  The
mattress seemed to the sick woman to be leaning over to one side and sliding 
her out of bed, and though
level it had to be raised on that side by putting pillows beneath. Of course 
every effort only proved to the
sick  woman  that  her  body  itself  was  wrong  and  not  any  of  the  
objects  that  offended  her.  To  the  right  of
her bed was a window which she wanted covered with a sheet because light from 
that direction hurt her.
Then the whiteness of the sheet pained her, and even when Alfonso put a black 
cloth over the sheet, she
had no peace.

“I  see,  yes,  I  see!”  she  groaned  and  asked  for  no  other  changes,  
but  even  when  she  had  turned  her
back, she went on feeling an indefinable malaise on that side.

Only one other time did Alfonso find her calm enough to enable him to go out. 
He did not want to stay
too long away from the sick woman and longed at least to go as far as the 
village. So he was annoyed as
he  left the  house  to  run into  young Creglingi,  Rosina’s future  husband,  
on his  way with  two peasants  to
his fields just beyond Alfonso’s house, spread over half of the most fertile 
part of the valley.

Alfonso could not quite hide that he had not wanted the meeting, but he noticed 
that Creglingi did not
seem  very  friendly  either;  in  fact  if  Alfonso,  ashamed  of  passing  by 
 an  old  friend  without  even  greeting
him, had not moved towards him first, Creglingi would have given no sign of 
noticing him.

“Am  I  really  so  put  out  to  find  he’s  engaged  to  Rosina?”  Alfonso  
asked  himself,  surprised  at  his  own
hatred and not at the other’s.

“How are you?” asked Creglingi, a sturdy young man with coarse features, 
sunburnt skin and little sly
eyes  in  a  round  face.  He  gave  signs  of  some  embarrassment,  which  
Alfonso  attributed  to  jealousy  of
Rosina.

“Congratulations!” said Alfonso at once, and shook his hand so as to leave no 
doubts about the sincerity
of his good wishes.

But on receiving these congratulations Creglingi seemed no happier with his old 
friend and moved off
saying he had to get home by a certain hour after cutting the hay in a field 
which was still a long way off.

Their friendship was one of early youth and had lasted till Alfonso’s 
departure, although as they grew
older,  the  difference  between  the  two  young  men  increased  more  and  
more.  Creglingi’s  brain  had
developed  little,  or,  rather,  had  been  stifled  by  manual  labour.  
Alfonso  would  never  have  cut  off  their


relationship as he had a nostalgic longing for memories of his early youth. But 
he felt a stab of bitterness
at finding himself the one rejected. Creglingi had no more than two or three 
ideas in his whole head and
they  had  to  serve  him  all  his  life;  but  in  spite  of  that  Alfonso  
had  always  felt  a  certain  sympathy  for  his
strength and determination.

He had an impression that the three men were having a quiet laugh at him. Blood 
rushed to his head;
he turned and was just about to shout some insult when he found they were 
walking quietly along beside
each  other,  Creglingi  in  the  middle  with  head  bowed.  He  doubted  
whether  he  had  misheard.  Then  he
realized  that  what  had  provoked  the  peasants’  laughter  was  his  
doffing  his  hat  to  them  as  people  do  in
towns.

“Idiots,” he thought to calm himself. “When the chance comes, I’ll explain what 
that gesture means.”

His  month’s  leave  was  now  up;  on  the  last  day  he  remembered  to  ask 
 for  an  extension  and  wrote  a
friendly  letter  direct  to  Cellani  in  which  he  thanked  him  for  the  
patience  shown  till  then  and  asked
outright for another month. He had an intuition that a fortnight would be 
enough, but since he could hope
for no improvement in Signora Carolina, to put too short a term into writing 
would have seemed as if he
wanted to see her life shortened. Instead he wrote of his hopes for her 
complete recovery and added that
he might need to ask for yet another extension.

In  the  last  week  Signora  Carolina’s  physical  suffering  had  lessened,  
true  sign  of  the  nearing  of  ‘the
great pacifier’. Her body had even become incapable of pain.

One  morning,  after  a  sleepless  night  during  which  the  sick  woman  was 
 often  not  only  delirious  but
obviously weakening in her senses, Alfonso found her voice changed, its tone 
deeper and less sonorous,
interrupted  by  quick  irregular  breathing,  though  that  did  not  seem  to 
 make  the  sick  woman  suffer.  In  a
second of lucidity she said in a voice of anguish that she was dying; that the 
walls seemed to be folding in
and  threatening  to  fall  down  on  her;  and  a  storm  raging  outside;  
once,  beside  herself,  she  asked  him  to
send someone to the village to see if it was still standing. Then she wanted to 
describe what she felt and
tried  in  vain  for  hours  to  find  the  right  words.  It  was  strange  
and  terrible  she  said,  because  she  felt
herself being martyred but felt no pain.

Towards nightfall she lost consciousness. Alfonso thought her dead and began 
sobbing unrestrainedly.
That long day of new sufferings, the feeling of his own impotence revealed 
surprising things that he had
not known existed. The disease overwhelming his mother’s wretched body seemed 
now to be taking on an
existence  of  its  own.  He  had  seen  it  strike  at  intervals,  deride  
all  efforts  made  against  it,  then  struggle
with someone whom it knew could not escape, grant illusory truces, and now, 
finally, kill.

Giuseppina touched her mistress’s body, found it cold, and had the ingenious 
idea of reanimating it by
warming  the  bed  artificially.  Once  more  Signora  Carolina  opened  her  
eyes  and  looked  supplicatingly
around. She was imploring grace from someone.

Giuseppina  began  vaunting  her  own  miracle,  but  it  did  not  last  long. 
 Perhaps  the  sick  woman  felt  the
nearness  of  death  because,  raising  her  head  as  if  wanting  to  greet  
it  courteously,  she  murmured,  “This
I’ve never felt.”

They were her last words. The panting changed to a rattle. Alfonso thought that 
she had been granted
some  peace  at  last  and  that  the  lungs  were  returning  to  their  
regular  work;  he  tried  to  hold  one  of  her
hands to support her and found it stiff.

That very moment Doctor Frontini happened to arrive. He confirmed death after a 
careful examination,
as if it were still a question of remedies.

“It’s all over,” Alfonso said to spare him the trouble.

He  had  to  say  the  same  to  Mascotti,  who  had  hurried  up,  called  by  
Giuseppina;  he  first  refused  to
believe in the death, and then tried to comfort him by a speech to show that 
Signora Carolina was better
dead. But Alfonso needed no comfort. He felt no emotion, did not shout, his 
voice was firm and calm. He
was surprised by the speed with which that pain, that horrible panting, had 
ceased. The dead woman was
laid out on the bed which would no longer make her suffer, from which she would 
never slip again. Her
mouth was agape, but not to shout. It seemed open for a long yawn.

On seeing Alfonso so calm Mascotti was soon at ease; for he had entered this 
house in fear of having to
watch  scenes.  He  now  wanted  to  stay  and  even  asked  Frontini  to  keep 
 Alfonso  company.  Giuseppina,
without being told, brought a table from the dead woman’s room into her own, 
set chairs around and put
out some wine.

As soon as they had sat down, Mascotti suggested that Alfonso should come and 
stay at his home.

Alfonso refused, saying that he would remain in this house until he left the 
village. He said it calmly but
firmly, and Mascotti did not insist.

Both Mascotti and Frontini tried to change the subject; they spoke of the wine 
they were drinking, the
situation of the house, the heavy fall of snow the day before and the harsh 
temperature that day, and then
they fell to talking again about the event which had reunited them in that 
room.

Giuseppina described how helpful her nursing had been to Signora Carolina. If 
she had not been there
the poor woman would have died half-an-hour before.

Mascotti sat listening with curiosity.

“Strange! So life was nothing but some warmth!”

He  spoke  like  a peasant,  while  Frontini  asserted that  if  the  patient  
had come  round, it  could not  have
been due only to the little warmth supplied her by Giuseppina.

The  doctor  then  assured  them  that  all  the  resources  of  science  had  
been  lavished  on  the  sick  woman,
but  that  from  the  very  start  of  her  illness  he  had  realized  that  
there  was  no  remedy,  and  said  so  to
Mascotti.


“Wasn’t that true?”
Mascotti confirmed it.

Alfonso sat listening, only half understanding. He did not drink at all and 
spoke little, only when forced
to answer a direct question. He felt no emotion but seemed deep in thought; 
actually he was prostrated
by exhaustion in his limbs and head. Mascotti must be thinking him a heartless 
son.

There were no beds in the house apart from his father’s, and that would have to 
be dismantled in order
to get it out of the dead woman’s room. Mascotti renewed his suggestion that 
Alfonso should go and sleep
at his house  for a  couple  of  nights, and  Frontini, with slightly  more  
energy  because  it  cost him  nothing,
encouraged this. Alfonso, tired, agreed with whatever cost less words and 
accepted. Giuseppina promised
to    watch over the body. Never had she been so ready and active. She had 
informed the priest and busied
herself around the dead woman, in whose hands she had put a crucifix, and had 
set two candles on either
side.

Before  leaving  the  house  Alfonso  wanted  to  kiss  his  mother,  and  
seeing  Mascotti  and  Frontini  were
taking no notice of him he tried to enter the next-door room unseen. Mascotti 
prevented him, saying that
he  could  give  his  last  farewell  to  the  dead  woman  next  day.  The  
poor  man  was  still  afraid  of  scenes.
Frontini agreed with Mascotti, and Giuseppina in her new zeal grabbed Alfonso 
by the jacket and pulled
him back. But Alfonso insisted and eventually forced his way in. Tears came to 
his eyes as he struggled.
Was he to leave his mother as if escaping from her?

The  features  were  no  longer  those  he  had  loved,  and  he  turned  pale  
at  kissing  a  forehead  that  was
already ice-cold. He had kissed a thing and not a person.

Then  he  was  docile  and  did  what  Mascotti  wanted.  He  left  the  house  
without  giving  Giuseppina  any
instructions;  he  was  leaving  so  little  in  her  custody.  He  walked  
along  between  the  two  men  with  bowed
head.  They  too  were  silent  because,  after  seeing  those  few  tears  
torn  from  him  by  the  violence  of  their
condolences, his wordless sorrow touched them.

The ice-covered snow crackled beneath their feet and the full moon in a clear 
sky was bathing the white
valley with its rays, dazzling in that cold light. The tip of the stone hillock 
beyond the village seemed afire,
surrounded  by  pale  motionless  flames.  In  the  village  petty  attempts  
had  been  made  to  sweep  away  the
snow,   and the terrible white uniformity was at last broken by some darker 
patches of bare earth.

The  houses  were  silent  and  dark;  only  from  two  windows  of  a  
ground-floor  room  in  Faldelli’s  tavern
came strips of bright light and the sound of loud voices.

They  stopped  in  front  of  Mascotti’s  house,  next  to  the  tavern.  
Frontini  bid  Alfonso  farewell  with  some
words which he did not hear; more sympathy, it must have been.

The  notary’s  daughter,  an  ugly  little  old  spinster,  opened  the  door,  
and  although  she  already  knew  of
Alfonso’s  tragedy,  as  soon  as  she  had  shaken  his  hand  as  a  sign  of 
 condolence,  she  produced  a  phrase
prepared long before and which she was unable to renounce though it was now 
quite out of place.

“You’ve never even found time to pay me a visit; not in a whole month!”

He tried to excuse himself, but Mascotti interrupted him by brusquely ordering 
his daughter to go and
prepare  a  bed  for  Alfonso.  She  obeyed,  after  saying  she  was  
surprised  not  to  have  been  warned
beforehand of the hospitality suddenly demanded of her. Alfonso would have left 
that house, overcoming
his     utter  exhaustion,  had  she  not  made  her  remarks  more  polite  by 
 saying  that  as  she  had  not  been
forewarned he would be very uncomfortable in the only room and bed which she 
could offer him.

In fact, when left alone in a tiny room with one window, he felt wretched. He 
had to open the window at
once  because  the  air  was  damper  than  outside.  A  strong  smell  of  
must  increased  his  misery.  Everything
around him seemed to be rotting. The room was on the ground floor, and the 
window gave on to the main
street.  When  he  drew  back  from  the  window,  the  smell  of  the  room  
was  as  strong  as  if  the  air  had  not
been  let  in.  He  nearly  escaped  by  jumping  out  into  the  street,  
afraid  of  being  unable  to  sleep  that  night
even though he longed for the relief of sleep; he yearned to be free for an 
hour or two at least from the
sadness which it seemed would never leave him again.

If  only  he  could  sleep.  He  felt  utterly  weary;  his  head  would  no  
longer  stay  upright.  Had  he  left  that
house he would never have reached his home but would have fallen asleep in the 
snow.

In bed he felt wretched. The sheet was of coarse material, and what was more 
the bed seemed damp;
immediately  after  he  shut  the  window,  the  room  began  to  stink  
strongly,  the  smell  emanating  from  the
walls, the old furniture. He did not feel the slow approach of restorative 
sleep. His misery, which he still
attributed  to  the  smell  and  lack  of  air,  increased.  Again  he  decided 
 to  get  up  and  leave  the  house;  so
determined was he to do this that he began thinking up excuses for Mascotti 
next day. He seemed to have
been  on  the  point  of  putting  his  project  into  execution  and  had  
even  raised  the  sash—but  actually  he
could not remember lying down again and realized only that he was in the same 
bed, pressing his aching
head against the pillow.

Suddenly  he  felt  better,  more  comfortable  in  bed,  without  pain.  He  
lay  motionless,  fearing  to  lose  his
well-being. He was certainly not asleep but pleasantly resting.

He never remembered how the change had taken place, but he suddenly saw himself 
in quite another
place and in a very different state of mind.

He  was  lying  in  bed,  at  home,  in  a  big  airy  room  with  summer  sun  
entering  an  open  window.  He  was
convalescing  from  a  long  illness  and  was  so  weak  that  he  could  not  
succeed  in  moving  the  covers
oppressing  his  chest.  But  this  was  his  only  worry,  for  apart  from  
that  he  felt  happy.  He  stared  at  the
sunbeam lighting up innumerable specks suspended in the air, a faint mist found 
by the sun in the purest
of atmospheres. He was glad because he knew that in a few days he would be 
allowed to go out into the
sun  and  fresh  air,  glad  because  in  the  kitchen  next  door  he  could  
hear  his  mother  still  young  and


humming  as  she  worked  for  him.  A  monotonous  thud  reached  him  of  his 
 mother  pounding  meat  with  a
knife,  but  there  was  another  monotonous  sound,  a  continuous  gentle  
buzz  in  his  ears  which  made  him
doze off.

Someone must have entered the little passage because he could hear the sound of 
a light tread on the
stone  floor  and  the  rustle  of  a  dress.  From  just  in  front  of  the  
door  came  the  gentle  voice  of  a  woman:
“How  is  Alfonso?”  Then  that  voice  though  gentle  became  disagreeable  
because  it  seemed  to  echo  and
resound in all the empty spaces of the big house. Whose was it—that it sounded 
so familiar? He compared
it  with all the women’s voices that he knew but it wasn’t familiar. “Ah yes, 
Francesca’s!” And a sense of
deep discomfort swept over him and he thought: “If she’s settled in the 
village, she’ll destroy the quiet of
all its inhabitants.”

The  door  had  opened,  and  at  once  the  room  was  invaded  by  loud  
sounds  of  carts  in  the  streets  and
prolonged shouts of carters. Instinctively he shut his eyes to isolate himself. 
It was his mother. Before she
reached his bed, he saw her and her pleased smile at finding him so quiet. She 
bent down and kissed him,
but on the cavity of his ear. He felt a sharp pain as if something inside had 
burst, and woke up.

Light  entering  the  window  dazzled  him.  Was  it  day  already?  His  
surprise  was  the  greater  because  he
still felt tired as if he had slept at most an hour.

By his bed stood Mascotti and Frontini; they did not seem to have noticed that 
he had opened his eyes.
“How long can it last?” asked Mascotti, looking worried and stroking his nose 
with his forefinger.
“Who can tell? Maybe a fortnight. It’s probably typhoid fever.”

“Typhus?” asked Alfonso.

“He understands, you see, so he must be feeling better,” cried Mascotti, 
pleased.

“He has a temperature, but it’s low,” said Frontini turning to Alfonso, “and 
probably due to exhaustion
and grief. I guarantee it’s nothing serious. He’s much better now, it seems.”

So he was ill, and was surprised he’d not noticed it before. He had a fever 
which still sent shivers up his
spine,  made  his  body  hot  and  dry,  gave  his  lips  an  involuntary  
smile.  It  was  not  unpleasant,  nor  had  the
dreams it had given him been either.

“So  you’re  better,  eh?”  asked  Mascotti,  and  bent  over  him  as  if  
wanting  Frontini  not  to  hear.  Alfonso
never forgot either that dream or what he heard then. “I’d be quite willing to 
have you here, but there’s
no one who can look after you as you need. Guiseppina can act as nurse as she’s 
trained.”

“Yes, yes, home!” cried Alfonso, whose fever did not prevent him seeing this 
poor man’s fear of having
to keep a sick man in his house.

He heard Mascotti turn to Frontini and say that Alfonso himself wanted to 
return home.

He  dozed  off  again  but  did  not  fall  fast  asleep.  He  was  struggling  
with  fever  and  overcoming  it  every
now  and  again.  He  heard  his  mother’s  voice  asking  him  how  he  was  
and  soon  after  glimpsed  the  blond
gleams of Frontini’s moustache. Frontini was very assiduous. Every time Alfonso 
opened his eyes he saw
him  by  the  bed  taking  his  pulse  or  putting  pieces  of  ice  on  his  
brow.  He  must  be  a  good  person,  and
Alfonso in his fever was touched by the poor man whom he had so hated.

Then his fever increased again and with it came a violent headache. He gasped 
in agony.

“Oh! Poor mother!” he thought, remembering that other panting he had watched 
and which must have
been so much more agonizing than his own.

He must have lost sense of time because on reopening his eyes he found it was 
dark. A night-light was
glimmering next to the bed, and Giuseppina, half-asleep, was lying under the 
window on a sofa parallel to
his bed. So they had called her rather than put him out of the house. Mascotti 
was a good person too.

He  felt  very  thirsty  and  put  a  foot  out  of  bed  to  go  and  drink  a 
 bottle  of  water  which  he  had  noticed
because it reflected the tiny night-light.

“Now will you stay in bed?” cried Giuseppina, suddenly coming towards him 
threateningly.
He drew his leg back in terror.

“I only wanted some water!” he said in excuse.

“Ah! He’s come round,” said Giuseppina, at her ease, thinking aloud. “Sorry,” 
she added, in her coarse
man’s voice that was not used to apologizing. “They told me to be very careful 
with you!” She gave him as
much water as he wanted.

He must have spent many days in that state because often on opening his eyes he 
would be surprised to
find daylight after shutting them in the dark.

Once,  on  opening  his  eyes  he  was  surprised  to  find  himself  in  the  
street  in  front  of  Mascotti’s  house,
supported  by  Frontini  and  Giuseppina.  Uncertain  whether  it  was  a  
dream,  he  showed  no  surprise  and
asked  for  no  explanations.  He  was  put  into  a  cart,  which  moved  off  
at  once,  slowly  but  not  avoiding  a
shaking  like  whiplashes  on  irregular  cobbles.  He  was  glad  to  find  
this  vision  driven  out  by  others,  and
when that journey came back to him during the night, it seemed the fruit of 
delirium.

But  in  the  morning,  calm  now  as  if  after  a  long  rest,  with  a  mind 
 quiet  and  somewhat  torpid—his
thoughts turned only to what had preceded his illness and he realized that 
journey had not been a vision.
There was his room at home in exact detail, its old furniture, the pendulum 
clock which was ticking and
showing eight o’clock, two beds. There was his mother’s bed too. The body had 
been taken away, and it
had  been  remade  as  if  the  person  who  had  left  it  intended  to  lie  
down  that  night.  The  pillow  was  the
same; he recognized it by a coffee mark made by the dead woman when she pushed 
away a cup offered
her in a moment of intense suffering.

That  was  enough  to  evoke  in  him  all  the  terrible  events  at  which  
he  had  been  present  during  the  last
fortnight. Tears came to his eyes, sweet ones of compassion. It was not sorrow 
at feeling himself alone in
the world that made him weep. He wept for the poor old woman who had died 
loving a life which she had


long  known  was  to  abandon  her.  He  himself  was  still  living,  and  
life  was  sweet,  when  he  was  not
consciously aware of the flow of blood, the mechanism responsible for its 
regularity, and there was only
the calm and certainty of living, the sense of lasting for ever.

At seeing Giuseppina he began to laugh, because he remembered her already at 
work as a nurse.
“So the old man put me out of his house, did he?”

Giuseppina protested: “He had you brought here comfortably in a carriage.”

From Giuseppina he learned that he had been taken away from Mascotti’s house 
because of the latter’s
fear, which Frontini had been unable to destroy, that it was a case of typhus. 
The notary’s daughter had
been the most insistent and vehement in demanding his departure, and one day, 
terrified by a headache
she had had for some hours, she gave her father an ultimatum in front of 
Frontini.

“Either he goes or I do.”

Frontini  had  asked  for  two  days’  grace;  the  third  day  on  his  
arrival  he  found  Alfonso  already  carried
down the stairs, so he had been unable to do anything but help with the move 
and see it was done with
care. Every detail which Alfonso had thought a dream was a reality. He had put 
up some weak resistance
on the stairs, but after the first breath of fresh air had calmed down, looked 
round with an air of surprise
and, without a word, let himself be laid in the cart, to the great joy of 
Mascotti who cried: “Why, he’s all
right, he could even be taken as far as the city without danger!”

“Swine!”  muttered  Alfonso  in  indignation,  thinking  that  for  over  three 
 years  that  person  had  indeed
been his mother’s only protector.

Shortly afterwards Frontini came and was much surprised to find him in his 
right mind and hear he had
been so for some hours; though the doctor asserted shortly afterwards that it 
was a natural development
and he had foreseen it. He was a doctor who must have been used to making 
mistakes because he did not
seem surprised to find facts not agreeing with his opinions.

But he had behaved well during his illness, and Alfonso thanked him with tears 
in his eyes, thankful too
for the pleasure which he saw shining in the other’s face at his words.

In  the  afternoon  Mascotti  came  and  seemed  unwilling  to  speak  of  the  
journey  which  he  had  made
Alfonso take during his illness. Alfonso tried to be distant, which Mascotti at 
once noticed because he had
seen him angry and knew how he looked then. He explained that he had wanted him 
moved because that
room  in  his  home  was  in  no  way  suitable  for  a  sick  man.  Then,  
seeing  that  Alfonso’s  expression  did  not
change at all, Mascotti grew confused and said that it had really been Lina his 
daughter who had wanted
him out of the house. Alfonso was still silent and eventually Mascotti became 
indignant.

“We may be old,” he replied, “but we want to live another few years.”
This remark was enough to make Alfonso gentle and friendly.

Mascotti  at  once  changed  the  subject.  He  talked  of  the  sale  of  the  
house  which  was  now  necessary.
Creglingi,  Rosina’s  future  husband,  was  offering  ten  thousand  francs  
including  everything,  even  the
furniture.

“It doesn’t seem a bad offer to me,” said Mascotti. Shortly afterwards he left.

Alone again for the first time Alfonso thought over that adventure of his in 
the city. Illness had rested
his  brain,  and  the  thought  of  Annetta  seemed  almost  new  to  him.  He  
could  not  feel  passionate  about
things  that  had  happened  so  long  before,  although  he  considered  
himself  almost  responsible  for  them.
Now he was a new man who knew what he wanted. The other person, the one who had 
seduced Annetta,
was an ailing boy with whom he had nothing in common. It was not the first time 
he thought he had left
boyhood behind.

If  on  his  return  he  found  Annetta  still  loved  him,  he  would  marry  
her  because  he  was  aware  of  his
duties. But he would warn her and try to show her what a huge mistake they 
would make by their union.
He would say, “I’m like this, and you’re like that, but on becoming your legal 
husband and master I’ll use
every means at my disposal to change you, your tastes and your habits.” And 
also: “Of course I love you
but not enough to love and tolerate your defects. When I first knew you, I 
despised you for a long time,
sometimes even when I was showing love.”

He  felt  these  thoughts  stir  his  blood,  making  his  forehead  sweat  and 
 his  sight  dim.  The  struggle  in
which  he  was  about  to  engage  was  serious,  and  coming  immediately  
after  that  period  of  sweet  fever
which had made him live among dear ghosts of the past, he felt its harshness 
all the more.

But  if,  on  the  other  hand,  Annetta  no  longer  loved  him  and  was  
already  engaged  to  another,  as
Francesca  had  foreseen,  then  he  would  withdraw  into  solitude  and  live 
 calmly  and  happily.  The  affair’s
only consequences would be to take away his chances of promotion in the Maller 
bank. That was no great
disaster  because  his  pay  was  adequate  as  it  was.  Anyway,  he  had  not 
 enough  aptitude  for  commerce  to
give him any right to much advancement, and he lost very little by destroying 
the chance of getting it for
other reasons.

He smiled at the ghost of his mother who seemed to approve his propositions. 
His conscience was calm.
He was doing what was right according to a definite moral code, for on the one 
hand he declared himself
ready to carry out his obligations towards Annetta, although he regretted 
having assumed them, and on
the other he was renouncing riches because he did not want them if stolen and 
not freely given.

If Annetta no longer loved him, he would opt out of life, lose all interest in 
it and, in the contemplative
life to which he intended to dedicate himself, would have no need to flatter or 
pretend, and run no risk of
one fine day finding himself involved in another love affair born of vanity or 
cupidity. He would live with
desires that were simple, sincere and everlasting.

That evening the doctor found he still had a slight temperature and expressed a 
fear that it might rise
again. Alfonso was not afraid of this because he knew the causes of the 
worsening better than the doctor,


and  in  fact,  after  a  long  dreamless  sleep,  he  found  his  head  clear  
and  himself  so  much  stronger  that  he
could spend all day sitting up in bed.

On  the  last  day  which  he  spent  in  bed  he  received  a  visit  from  
Creglingi  concerning  the  sale  of  the
house. By chance Mascotti had come half-an-hour before to warn him hurriedly 
that Faldelli was making a
better offer than Creglingi. Faldelli wanted to open another tavern in that 
house and use the upper rooms
as granaries and the lower ones, two of which were very big, as cellars. He was 
offering twelve thousand
francs. Creglingi’s visit was unexpected because Mascotti had promised to warn 
him that they were not
prepared to sign a contract on the terms of his offer. But Alfonso would have 
been sorry to see his father’s
house turned into a tavern and asked Mascotti to get Creglingi to increase his 
offer. On first seeing him
he thought Creglingi was coming after a word with Mascotti, but instead found 
him surprised and angry
to  hear  himself  asked  to  increase  his  offer.  Alfonso  explained  that  
Faldelli  had  offered  more,  and  so  he
could not give him preference although he wanted to. He was quite sincere. Had 
he not feared Mascotti’s
derision,  he  would  have  accepted  Creglingi’s  offer  without  more  ado.  
He  would  have  liked  to  hand  his
house over to pretty Rosina, and indeed what most induced him to favour 
Creglingi was the fear that the
latter would think him an enemy because he was marrying an old love of 
Alfonso’s. The difference of two
thousand  francs  seemed  insignificant.  When  he  mentioned  his  preference  
for  him,  an  ironical  smile
passed over Creglingi’s face. Alfonso was deeply wounded.

“Even if I wanted to,” he shouted, “my trustee wouldn’t let me accept your 
offer.”

“Maybe!”  said  Creglingi  insolently,  “but  before  deciding  to  increase  
my  offer  I  want  a  word  with
Faldelli.”

He did not even pretend he believed Alfonso.

“Listen,” said Alfonso, whose weakness had made the blood rush violently to his 
head from anger, “once
you leave this room I warn you I’ll consider all dealings between us at an 
end.”

Creglingi  lost  his  temper  and  said  that  he  did  not  believe  in  
personal  considerations  in  business  and
would not give in to pressure.

“Business matters can’t just be arranged like this on the spot!”

Faldelli, who came alone too, found Alfonso still angry. Without reading the 
contract which Faldelli had
brought, Alfonso signed it at once although he had not been asked to do so in 
such a hurry. Some clauses
were to be filled in later, and finding the other so ready to accept the 
contract, Faldelli lowered his offer.
The furniture was older than he had thought, he said.

Although Creglingi had heard that the contract was already signed, he came to 
visit Alfonso once again,
this  time  obviously  to  hurt  him.  He  said  two  or  three  times  that  
if  he  had  been  given  time  to  reflect  he
would  have  paid  very  much  more.  This  assertion  left  Alfonso  calm,  
and  he  smiled  contemptuously;  but
Creglingi interpreted this contempt in a way Alfonso had not intended.

“Yes,” he muttered bitterly on seeing that the question of money did not affect 
Alfonso, “what you really
care about is harming me.”

Alfonso did not  defend himself  because  he  realized that  however  he  
behaved  this  man’s  enmity  would
find some reason for increasing. They parted brusquely, never to see each other 
again.

He did see Rosina again and felt a sense of repulsion as if he had met 
Creglingi himself. Alfonso made
an  effort  to  control  himself;  he  did  not  want  to  identify  her  with  
her  future  husband,  and  gave  her  a
smiling greeting, even raising his hat courteously. Rosina’s big black eyes 
widened with surprise, and she
gave him a hesitant ‘good day’. Obviously Alfonso’s form of greeting would 
never become familiar in the
village.

Some days before his departure Mascotti asked him to go and pay a farewell 
visit to his daughter, but
Alfonso did not go although he had promised to do so. He felt no rancour but 
found it bothersome to have
to hear her gossip or backbiting. Mascotti became very cold towards him and 
only on the last day did he
grow warmer.

That  day  Faldelli  brought  him  all  the  money,  one  franc  piled  on  
another,  as  he  had  said.  Mascotti
wanted to leave, but Faldelli, who had arrived unexpectedly, asked him to stay 
and witness the exchange
of documents. Instead of twelve thousand francs he paid nine thousand only, and 
to cover the gap, handed
over  a  receipt  from  Mascotti  with  various  items.  In  his  first  
surprise  Alfonso,  somewhat  offended,  asked
Mascotti  why  he  had  not  waited  to  be  paid  the  money  due  to  him.  
Mascotti,  confused,  declared  that  he
had acted thus to avoid bother for him, and Alfonso had time enough to convince 
himself that it would be
indecorous  to  make  a  single  word  of  complaint  about  the  large  amount 
 subtracted  and  did  not  examine
the   items till he was alone.

There  were  mainly  chemists’  bills,  although  they  did  not  come  to  
more  than  a  few  hundred  francs
altogether, then a receipt from Giuseppina for a sum which Alfonso did not find 
higher than she deserved,
and  a  receipt  from  Frontini  for  an  amount  which  would  have  made  the 
 most  wretched  doctor  in  town
smile with contempt. Finally there was a little note from Mascotti to justify 
the lack of the remainder, over
half.  On  it  were  two  words  in  pencil,  of  which  Alfonso  could  only  
decipher  one—‘Trusteeship’—and  then
the sum.

Alfonso’s   behaviour   seemed   to   have   pleased   Mascotti,   for   
without   being   asked   he   suggested
accompanying him on the visit which Alfonso made to the cemetery before his 
departure.

“Leave you alone in that place with your sorrow? I wouldn’t have the 
conscience!”

His  presence  helped  to  calm  Alfonso’s  emotion.  He  had  expected  to  
feel  emotional  and  was  surprised
not to feel overwhelmed. He stood there motionless in front of the little heap 
of bare earth, his mother’s
tomb,  still  without  the  headstone  which  had  been  commissioned,  and  
felt  so  cold  that  he  tried  to  find
excuses for himself. What lay beneath there? A ravaged body which maybe no 
longer bore even any traces


of ‘who’ had lived in it. That ‘who’, soul or occult force, faith of 
philosophers, was not in that tomb.

The cemetery was arranged like any other plot, surrounded by a wall. The tombs, 
mostly furnished with
little stone crosses, were arranged regularly one behind the other with 
inscriptions facing the main road
which ran by the short side of the cemetery. It looked like an oblong field on 
which a hoe had made long,
regular furrows. A single alley divided it and led to a small chapel opposite 
the entrance.

Old Nitti’s tomb was near the entrance, but two rows away from the dividing 
alley. To reach it Alfonso
had to walk over those tombs. He came opposite a raised stone with his father’s 
name and the years of his
birth and death. How many tears Alfonso had shed on that tomb! How simple and 
how strong had been
his feelings at his father’s death!

The  night  before  his  departure  Giuseppina  told  him  that  Faldelli  had  
taken  her  on  and  told  her  what
changes  he  intended  to  make  in  the  house.  The  new  owner  would  be  
putting  the  building  to  better  use
than  the  Nittis  had  been  able  to.  Meanwhile,  the  part  most  useful  
to  him  would  be  that  completely
abandoned  by  the  Nittis.  “In  the  hands  of  those  people,”  he  had  
told  Giuseppina,  “it  was  so  much  dead
capital.” Like all ambitious men he liked chatting about his plans.

Alfonso  was  almost  turned  out  of  the  house.  He  was  woken  up  at  
four  in  the  morning  by  Faldelli  in
person and warned that he could go on sleeping and that he, Faldelli, had only 
come to ask if he could put
all the furniture in the house into that room. Alfonso got up and, before 
leaving for the station, stood for
half-an-hour  looking  at  workmen  carrying  into  that  room  pieces  of  
furniture  whose  existence  he  had
forgotten.

“Would you like this?” asked Faldelli, proffering a long wooden pipe with a 
meerschaum bowl.

He  recognized  it.  His  father  had  not  used  it  in  the  last  years  of  
his  life,  so  it  was  a  memory  of  his
happiest years when his parents had been healthy and he in his first youth in 
that house. Pride prevented
him accepting it, but he wanted to show his gratitude to Faldelli and shook his 
hand affectionately when
he said goodbye. The other was kind but distracted and suddenly let out a curse 
and a kick at a peasant
who  in  moving  a  table  had  broken  a  door  panel.  Alfonso  smiled  at  
noticing  how  tight  Faldelli’s  clothes
stretched at this; usually they were all wrinkled round him.

During  the  journey  Alfonso  was  all  alone  in  his  third-class  carriage. 
 At  one  station  he  heard  voices
quarrelling.  He  looked  out  of  the  window  and  saw  a  very  shabbily  
dressed  individual  jumping  out  of  a
carriage with a single leap. He had been thrown out: the inspector told Alfonso 
he had not paid his fare
and that it was only out of kindness that he was not arrested.

As  the  train  moved  off,  the  poor  devil  was  still  standing  in  the  
same  place  cleaning  a  filthy  hat  on  his
sleeve  which  had  fallen  as  he  jumped.  He  was  looking  up  at  the  
train  with  intense  longing.  Whatever
would he do in that village where he had arrived by chance and knew no one?


XVII

RRIVAL IN THE TOWN  was dreary. Out in the country white snowflakes had 
swirled, but here the sirocco
was blowing from the sea, and there was a monotonous drizzle over the city. 
Alfonso had a sad feeling
that this weather would never change. There were no single clouds in the sky, 
but one dense layer of dirty

grey as far as the horizon.

He was just leaving the station when he was stopped by Prarchi, who came 
running up and in his hurry
forgot to shut his umbrella, though already under cover.

“Have you seen Fumigi?”
“No, I’ve not!”

“Could he have arrived already?” and he left Alfonso to go and speak to the 
stationmaster.

He  returned  to  Alfonso,  who  did  not  understand  how  the  stationmaster  
could  have  given  news  of  a
specific passenger so soon.

“He’s not arriving today. And what might you be doing around here?”

“I’ve  just  arrived  this  minute  myself,”  replied  Alfonso,  amazed  the  
other  did  not  know  of  his  long
absence.

“Oh really?” Then he was sorry in his turn at showing such ignorance about 
Alfonso’s doings and tried
to correct himself: “I’m so absent-minded! Of course I knew you were away! 
Macario and Maller told me.”

They  set  off  walking  across  the  square  and  into  Via  Ghega,  which  
from  there  plunged  compact  and
narrow, deep into the city. After a few paces they had reached the main 
streets.

“Are you in mourning?” asked Prarchi with surprise.
“Yes, for my mother.”

Prarchi gave his condolences, then, put out at being unable to talk normally, 
tried to say goodbye. But
Alfonso  was  eager  to  hear  news  of  the  Mallers  as  soon  as  possible  
and  offered  to  accompany  him  in
whatever direction he was going.

Then, finding Prarchi still mute, he told him that he had been away from town 
for over a month and no
one  had  bothered  to  write  him  anything;  and  he  asked  for  news  of  
each  and  every  member  of  the
Wednesday  club.  He  managed  to  hint  that  there  was  one  particular  bit 
 of  news  he  wanted,  and  that  a
word about it from Prarchi would satisfy his curiosity.

But Prarchi did not say it and spoke of Fumigi. He repeated, partly, what 
Alfonso already knew. Fumigi,
after the forced liquidation of his business, had shown symptoms of an illness 
which Prarchi had at once
diagnosed  as  progressive  paralysis,  while  others  were  uncertain  between 
 that  and  spinal  meningitis.
Prarchi’s  voice  showed  no  emotion  except  when  he  described  his  
replies  to  a  distinguished  doctor,  who
had          in  a  veiled  way  accused  the  latter  of  ignorance.  Fumigi’s 
 wretched  fate  had  given  the  young  doctor
moments of great satisfaction, and he spoke of these more than of that fate. 
Prarchi had been correct in
another  assertion,  confirmed  by  Maller’s  accountant.  Fumigi’s  disease  
was  not  the  consequence  of  his
commercial ruin but its cause; the first symptoms of illness had shown in his 
business affairs themselves.

“Oh it’s tragic!” and here Prarchi became volubly sympathetic. “The work of a 
lifetime lost due to some
little  corrupted  nerve!  The  silly  man,  though  feeling  ill,  was  
determined  to  go  on  working  and  in  a  few
weeks plunged into speculations for which a lifetime of care couldn’t 
compensate. It’s sometimes a great
advantage to see a doctor in time.”

Still fixed on one idea, Alfonso now found a way of making Prarchi talk about 
Annetta.
“Didn’t he contract his illness from love of Annetta?”

“I don’t think so!” replied Prarchi. “Maybe that was the last straw, but such 
illnesses build up slowly. It
must have been undermining Fumigi’s constitution for years. He worked too hard 
and lived a celibate life:
no other explanations are needed, it seems to me. Now we can follow the 
progress of his paralysis, but it
had  surely  been  growing  in  him  for  a  long  time.  A  symptom  is  that  
he’s  always  staring  at  figures  even
now.”

Both  silent,  they  crossed  the  Via  dei  Forni.  The  Maller  house,  seen  
through  that  rainy  atmosphere,
looked just as it had through the snow on the day of his departure; grey, 
solemn, shut. The inhabitants of
the house, in spite of the late hour, were still asleep. Prarchi had not looked 
in that direction. He was still
thinking of Fumigi.

“Now he’s been handed over to me,” he said bitterly, “when the most interesting 
phase is already over.
Not  that  I  could  have  brought  him  any  relief  before,  but  now  I’m  
watching  the  process  with  complete
indifference because it’s already been described thousands of times in great 
detail, while before it would
have   been interesting to watch the clouding of his mind when still strong 
enough to put up a resistance.”

Alfonso did not open his mouth, despairing now of learning any news of Annetta 
from Prarchi. Had his
conscience  been  clear  he  would  have  asked  him  outright,  but  he  did  
not  dare  to.  Only  when  saying
goodbye did Prarchi touch on the subject. Beyond the bridge, shaking hands with 
Alfonso, he said point-
blank, laughing at him:

“Let’s  hope  Signorina  Annetta  hasn’t  ensnared  another  victim!”  and  he  
stared  at  Alfonso.  “It  was
obvious long ago that Macario would get her in the end. You’re clever enough to 
have foreseen that as I
did.”

Instead,  though  Alfonso  had  been  forewarned,  the  news  gave  him  two  
surprises.  One  the  fact  itself,
which  he  had  not  expected,  and  the  other  a  sudden  stab  of  jealousy. 
 As  usual  he  was  thinking  up  an
attitude which could prevent Prarchi noticing his emotion, and too much 
carelessness, he thought, might


arouse suspicion.

“Really?”  he  asked  with  surprise,  but  pleasantly  so  he  thought.  “Is  
it  official?”  Then  not  wanting  to
show  he  doubted  the  truth  of  the  news,  he  added  to  explain  his  
question,  “Can  one  congratulate  her  at
once?”

Suddenly it seemed that it could not be true.

Prarchi said it was not official and that he had not yet congratulated Macario, 
but it was certainly true.
The  Wednesday  club  no  longer  existed  and  Federico  had  come  from  
Paris  for  his  sister’s  engagement
ceremony.

“Maybe they’ll go on to the wedding at once,” added Prarchi laughing, “because 
Macario is said to be in
a great hurry and even Annetta doesn’t want things to drag on.”

The   Wednesday   club   no   longer   existing   and   Federico   coming   
unexpectedly   from   Paris   were   not
sufficient proof that Annetta was engaged—Alfonso soon persuaded himself that 
this proved the news was
all a complete invention.

Prarchi went off convinced he had been wrong about Alfonso’s feelings for 
Annetta, and Alfonso had the
satisfaction of having succeeded in making Prarchi believe in his indifference. 
This soothed him; he would
behave in the same way to everyone and deceive them all as he had Prarchi.

As  soon  as  he  was  alone,  he  realized  he  felt  intuitively  that  
Annetta  was  already  engaged  to  Macario.
There was nothing in that to surprise him. He had been warned it would happen 
and found it strange that
on receiving Francesca’s letter, the one giving him that news, he had not felt 
the stab at the heart which
had  almost  made  him  cry  out  in  front  of  Prarchi.  He  found  an  
explanation  for  that  too.  There  in  the
country,  seen  from  afar,  such  things  lost  their  importance.  He  had  
been  more  worried  by  Creglingi’s
hatred than by Francesca’s threats.

He  crossed  the  piazza,  lost  in  thought  amid  the  din  of  fruit  and  
vegetable  vendors.  He  found  himself
surrounded by groups of maid-servants doing their shopping. They looked serene 
and had the frank air to
which  their  hour  of  independence  gave  them  a  right.  An  occasional  
housewife  or  young  lady  passed
hurriedly  by,  accompanied  by  her  maid.  He  did  not  press  through  but  
waited  for  a  long  time  until  the
groups  dissolved  and  left  the  way  free  for  a  single  fruit-seller,  
roughly  dressed  but  wearing  gleaming
black boots, to move a big umbrella and let him pass. In Alfonso’s state of 
mind he was only too glad to be
forced to walk slowly.

But  he  had  still  been  in  town  when  Francesca  warned  him  of  what  
was  about  to  happen,  and  the
impression it made on him then had been weak. Yes indeed. He had been right to 
leave, as he recognized
even  then,  for  he  had  not  forgotten  any  of  the  reasons  inducing  him 
 to  that  step.  So  why  this  surprise,
sorrow and jealousy?

What  did  surprise  him  still  was  that  the  choice  had  fallen  on  
Macario.  Annetta  had  never  shown  any
great sympathy for her cousin, and in his turn Macario had spoken of Annetta in 
a way which might show
he loved and desired her, but not that he wanted to marry her. He had so 
disliked Annetta’s mathematical
dexterity  and  her  pretensions  and  caprices!  It  was  reasonable  of  
Alfonso  to  be  displeased  that  Macario
was    to become Annetta’s husband rather than another, for Macario was or had 
been his friend,  and  this
relationship  made  his  own  future  bearing  more  difficult.  He  saw  
himself  invited  to  the  wedding  or  even
being  chosen  as  Macario’s  best  man.  That  might  do  nicely  as  a  plot  
for  a  novel,  but  what  a  bore  and
pretence in reality.

It  was  not  this  that  afflicted  him.  He  could  not  lie  to  himself.  
He  felt  jealousy,  a  sharp  pain,  a  deep
bitterness; and that was very silly. He was suffering from the results of his 
own actions. Since it was he
who had left Annetta, no consequences of a renunciation freely made by himself 
should have pained him;
his consciousness of being the renouncer, even if no one had known it, should 
have been enough to soothe
his pride. Once on this road he wanted to go further. What was happening now 
did not concern him at all;
knowing  himself  free  of  Annetta  should  have  been  enough  for  his  
happiness  too.  He  was  free!  He
repeated the word again in a low voice. Free of that silly chit of a girl who 
had abandoned him as speedily
as she had given herself to him.

When  he  left  the  piazza,  he  was  walking  with  a  long  deliberate  
tread,  his  tread  of  big  decisions.  He
looked round in case he ran into Macario, as he wanted to congratulate him at 
once on the happy event.
Happy? Poor Macario. He really was the one betrayed.

In  spite  of  all  this  reasoning  Alfonso  remained  sad.  Once  more,  so  
he  told  himself,  it  showed  the
silliness  of  life,  and  he  was  not  thinking  of  any  wrong  done  him  
by  Annetta  or  Macario  but  of  the  harm
inflicted by his own strange and unreasonable feelings.

Then at the Lanuccis’ his gloom increased. Even the size of the little low 
rooms depressed him because
in the country he had again become used to a lot of space.

The  family  seemed  more  miserable  than  usual.  Lucia,  who  was  
embroidering  in  the  living-room,
scarcely greeted him; she looked wan and had greenish marks beneath her eyes. 
Old Lanucci had been in
bed for a fortnight with rheumatism from which he might never recover; a grave 
new disaster for the poor
family. Gustavo was not at home.

Old  Signora  Lanucci  seemed  to  remember  Alfonso’s  misfortune  only  an  
hour  later.  Very  tired,  he  had
thrown himself on the bed when she knocked on the door. He went to meet her 
with some irritation. He
did not understand why she was openly weeping; sobs prevented her speaking.

“What’s the matter?” he asked in alarm.

“She  died,  poor  thing,  and  suffered  so  much!”  He  was  calmed  to  hear 
 that  Signora  Lanucci  was  only
crying about his mother’s death.

“Yes, she died and told me to say goodbye to you all.”


He  had  tears  in  his  eyes,  but  only  because  his  eyes  were  so  
sensitive  they  filled  with  tears  at  seeing
anyone cry. He had to tell her every detail of his mother’s death, and then he 
really was moved.

“And what have you done with the house?”
“Sold it,” and he told her how much he had got.

The  conversation  became  affecting.  Signora  Lanucci  embraced  him  and  
placed  two  hot  kisses  on  his
cheeks.

“Now I’ll be your mother, with all my heart.”

Certainly Signora Lanucci must have suffered a lot in that interval of time, 
for he had noticed from the
very beginning that a new sadness had altered her features. He thought she was 
suffering because of her
husband’s illness. She smiled and laughed, wanting to console Alfonso after 
having been herself the cause
of       his agitation, but they were grimaces. Before he had left, her thin 
lips had never lacked a smile even in
her saddest hours.

Then  he  understood.  There  was  other  news  in  that  house  apart  from  
Lanucci’s  illness.  For  two  weeks
Gralli  had  no  longer  come  to  visit  Lucia.  He  had  made  a  formal  
withdrawal  in  a  letter  which  Signora
Lanucci now pulled all crushed from her pocket. It said that as work in the 
printers where he had a good
position was suspended, he could no longer consider marriage.

While he read, Signora Lanucci looked at him attentively, studying his face to 
see what impression this
letter made on him. She was very pale and gnawing her nails.

“Is it such a disaster?” asked Alfonso, forcing himself to laugh in order to 
console her more easily.

He criticized Gralli, a man whom he had never liked, his taut skinny face and 
short stature, certainly a
man violent and insincere.

“Oh  I’m  not  sorry  about  his  desertion,”  she  tried  to  laugh  it  off,  
but  again  her  face  took  on  that
expression of forced gaiety, contorted like someone trying to do gymnastics.

It was painful. To free himself he asked to go and greet old Lanucci, but she 
replied that the sick man
was asleep. He then made a decision which cost him a great effort, in spite of 
his looking as calm as if he
had  merely  remembered  a  duty.  He  decided  to  go  back  to  the  bank  at 
 once.  It  was  something  which  he
had to do sooner or later—it was better to rid himself of that worry.

As he went he tried to acquire calm and strength by picturing the very worst 
possibilities to which he
was exposing himself. He saw only one. To be sacked from his job. That was bad 
enough in itself, but the
thought of all the hatred from those sacking him was so unpleasant that to 
avoid being disturbed by it he
tried   to   imagine   himself   saved   from   it   entirely.   Francesca   
had   written   that   Maller   had   been   told
everything, but she  had not been present at the  interview between father and 
daughter and might have
been  deceived  by  Annetta,  who  had  reasons  for  doing  so.  He  had  only 
 known  for  two  hours  of  Annetta
jilting  him,  but  that  had  been  enough  to  become  used  to  that  idea;  
now,  remembering  some  of  his
observations  about  Annetta’s  character,  her  forgetting  him  at  once  
seemed  so  obvious  that  he  did  not
even     have to imagine Maller’s intervention in the matter to explain it.

Even before talking to her father she had repented of her slip, and if there 
had been violent scenes at
home, as Francesca had written, they had been about something quite different. 
Perhaps while Francesca
had  thought  that  Annetta  was  fighting  for  him,  Annetta  was  really  
fighting  to  marry  her  cousin,  who
would himself  not  be  entirely  satisfactory  to  old  Maller  because  he  
was  not  rich.  That  would  have  been
fine.  Her  affair  would  have  left  no  consequences  except  in  memory.  
And  for  him  it  need  not  be  a  nasty
memory,  he  had  now  to  admit.  Its  consequences  could  become  so,  but  
in  itself,  cut  off  short  in  that
manner, the affair had been only an enjoyable experience. In his later years, 
in that old age to which he
looked  forward,  he  would  be  able  to  describe  having  ‘lived’  in  the  
sense  that  that  word  was  used  by
others.

Santo, the first person he ran into in the corridor of the bank, greeted him in 
a most friendly way and
told him that he had been much talked of during his absence. He was sorry to 
hear of his mother’s death.

Alfonso  thanked  Santo  very  warmly,  because  this  friendship  shown  him  
by  Maller’s  personal  servant
could be an indication of the feelings Maller himself had for him.

Signor  Maller  was  not  in,  and  his  absence  seemed  also  a  piece  of  
good  luck  to  Alfonso.  The  idea  of
facing  his  chief  without  knowing  what  the  latter  thought  of  him  gave 
 him  goose  bumps;  in  any  case  it
would be easier to go to him after some preparation and after studying what 
attitude to take.

The  blow  fell  unexpectedly  and  came  from  Cellani,  his  best  friend  
among  his  superiors,  who  greeted
him  very  coldly  indeed.  He  did  not  stop  writing  and  did  not  raise  
his  head  except  once  to  stare  him
blankly in the eye.

“Let  me  advise  you  to  work  hard,”  he  said  to  the  flustered  Alfonso. 
 “Try  to  regain  time  lost.”  Alfonso
had already opened the door to leave when he was called back. “Signor Nitti!” 
He re-entered full of hope,
expecting from Cellani, with that gentle and expansive character, some friendly 
word of greeting or polite
one     of sympathy. Instead, Cellani, after making sure Alfonso was standing 
once again in front of him, told
him, as coldly as ever, that he had been charged by Maller to give his 
condolences and to say he need not
visit   the   managing   director   as   was   usual   after   a   long   
absence.   His   whole   mind   seemed   to   be
concentrating  on  writing  because  his  voice  was  modulated  according  to  
the  movements  of  the  pen.
“Signor Maller is very busy!” he added in an even tone, as if this explanation 
was really unnecessary.

Alfonso, realizing clearly what consequences he must draw from Cellani’s 
attitude, again felt a need to
be alone and reflect. He left that office undecided; he should certainly have 
said something, he felt that,
but did not know what. And as he closed Cellani’s door, he had a second’s 
regret. He could not turn back,
and he had certainly not behaved as he should.

How  he  happened  to  be  in  the  despatch  department,  the  office  facing  
Cellani’s,  he  did  not  know.


Starringer in his stolid, safe but unpleasant voice was consoling him on his 
mother’s death and shook his
hand vehemently. Then, not knowing that he had just arrived at that moment and 
had not yet got to work,
he asked, “Did you put this letter on my desk?”

“I’ve only been in the office five minutes,” replied Alfonso.
Ballina stopped him in the little passage by his room.

“These  things  happen  to  all  of  us,”  he  said.  “It’s  sad  but  …”  and  
he  ended  by  shaking  Alfonso’s  hand
vigorously, perhaps for fear of saying something silly.

In his room he was alone for a few minutes. Then Alchieri came in to offer his 
condolences. The latter
also wanted to know how Signora Carolina’s illness had developed and what were 
the symptoms; he had
heard it said that she had died of a heart attack and, being very frightened of 
the same thing happening
to   himself,   wanted   to   take   advantage   of   this   chance   to   
gather   information.   Alfonso   replied   in
monosyllables,  and  Alchieri  attributed  this  apparent  indifference  to  
sorrow  and  repugnance  in  talking
about that subject.

Alfonso on the other hand had one thought on his mind; to find out what could 
have made a once polite
man like Cellani be so rude. Not distraction, and not sorrows of his own, for 
obviously that coldness and
offhand manner were put on.

He settled down at his desk, which looked unchanged, just as he had left it, 
with in the middle drawer a
sheet of  paper,  a  botched letter  which  he  had  not  sent off,  to  the  
right  a calendar  cancelled  on  that  last
day in the office when Cellani had offered him his leave with such laughing 
courtesy.

He was hated by Maller and Cellani. Before jilting him Annetta had denounced 
him to her father. Who
knew in what terms she had described him. Annetta, when she decided to leave 
him and marry Macario,
must  have  come  to  loathe  him;  he  might  well  have  really  seemed  to  
her  a  seducer,  even  a  violator,  for
nothing  is  easier  to  cancel  from  the  mind  than  a  fault  of  one’s  
own  which  has  been  neither  spoken  nor
written  about.  He  would  have  been  represented  as  the  only  one  to  
blame;  Maller  and  Cellani  must
certainly think that he had taken Annetta by treachery.

How  would  he  defend  himself  if  he  was  allowed  to  speak?  Simply  
describe  sincerely  all  that  had
happened since Annetta first welcomed him so kindly into her home. He had loved 
her and in return had
not  been  loved  but  tolerated;  that  had  contributed  to  his  
exasperation.  He  would  alter  the  truth  only  to
avoid  accusing  Annetta,  not  to  diminish  his  own  blame—for  it  had  
actually  been  she  who  had  made  him
lose his head by her coquetry and she who had first trod the path that led them 
astray.

Alchieri asked him if he had greeted Sanneo. He had forgotten to do so and went 
to his superior’s room
at  a  run,  terrified  of  suddenly  meeting  Maller  or  Cellani  again.  He  
had  feared  for  an  instant  to  find
Sanneo  treating  him  in  the  same  way  as  Cellani.  He  was  very  soon  
disabused,  for  Sanneo  greeted  him
with the exaggerated courtesy which he used in dealing with matters outside 
office routine. He gave him
his  condolences  in  a  friendly  tone,  said  he  did  not  look  at  all  
well  and  added  that  he  hoped  his  health
would  soon  recover  with  the  quiet  routine  of  work  in  the  office.  
That  was  sincere;  he  had  not  said  it  to
make his clerk work harder. Then as soon as he went on to speak of work, his 
tone became colder. He had
been  waiting  impatiently,  he  said.  He  wanted  Alfonso  to  take  on  work 
 assigned  to  him  in  the  last  days
before he left, that of assessments and also some of the German correspondence.

Alfonso  accepted.  He  knew  it  was  too  much,  but  he  did  not  mind  
that.  By  his  work  he  would  make
himself indispensable at the bank; into his mind flashed the hope of getting 
Maller to like him as a clerk
since  he  loathed  him  as  a  man.  Later  he  thought  of  this  again.  
What  had  business  to  do  with  family
matters? For to Alfonso relations with Annetta were family matters.

Jassy had died the night before after an illness of a few days, half of which 
he had spent in the office.
The poor man had always thought himself indispensable and died with that 
conviction, for the illness had
not  even  left  him  time  to  realize  how  little  his  absence  mattered  
to  Maller  and  Co.  Marlucci  the  Tuscan
gave Alfonso the news of the death and asked him to contribute towards a 
communal funeral wreath with
which all the clerks wanted to honour the memory of their old colleague.

Not  all  the  clerks  knew  of  Afonso’s  month-and-a-half  of  absence.  When 
 he  told  Marlucci  that  he  knew
nothing of Jassy’s death, as he had been away, he did not hide his surprise, 
and, on hearing that Alfonso’s
mother  had  died  during  this  time,  he  did  not  even  remember  to  
console  him.  As  he  waited  for  Alfonso’s
signature  to  dry,  taking  his  time  to  avoid  blotching,  he  told  
Alfonso  that  Jassy’s  funeral  would  be  taking
place the next day.

Shortly  afterwards,  Sanneo  came  in  bringing  a  packet  of  letters,  all  
the  pending  ones  which  he  had
been unable to get through during Alfonso’s absence.

“I’ll get down to work at once,” said Alfonso, but so hesitatingly that it was 
an obvious request to be left
free that day. He had to get his room in order and, what was more important, 
wanted to deposit his money
in another bank.

Sanneo agreed and said that there was no hurry about those pending letters, but 
looked rather put out
so  that  Alfonso  quickly  decided  to  get  straight  down  to  work.  He  
was  starting  at  once  on  his  policy  of
ingratiation with his superiors.

Miceni  came  to  greet  him  and  was  the  first  to  use  the  genuine  tone 
 of  a  sympathetic  friend.  He  said
that  he  felt  Alfonso’s  grief  deeply  as  he  had  recently  had  the  
identical  misfortune  himself,  and  gave  a
touching description of his own mother’s death.

Then  he  changed  tone  and  told  Alfonso  the  town  gossip,  the  same  
things  told  him  by  Prarchi.  Fumigi
was  ill  and  Annetta  engaged.  He  had  no  intention  of  making  Alfonso  
jealous  or  paining  him  at  all  and
seemed to have quite forgotten that at one time he had considered Alfonso as a 
suitor to Annetta’s hand.

He  said  he  thought  Annetta’s  marriage  to  Macario  an  excellent  thing,  
in  view  of  the  social  position  of


the engaged pair, and ingenuously wanted Alfonso to agree.

“Oh it’s certainly an excellent marriage,” said Alfonso with conviction.

Laughing, Miceni added,  “You’ll have  some  bothers  now. As  a friend of  the 
 family  you’ll have  to pay  a
congratulatory visit, perhaps give a wedding present.”

He  left  Alfonso  more  disturbed  than  ever.  If  nothing  had  been  said  
to  him  directly,  surely  that  meant
they wanted him to behave in a way that aroused no suspicion, as if nothing had 
happened. So he should
pay  one  visit  at  least  to  the  Mallers’  which  would  be  as  
embarrassing as his first one. When the  chance
came, he would also have to go up to Macario and shake his hand. All this froze 
his blood.

Work  distracted  him.  He  was  in  it  up  to  his  eyes.  He  still  knew  
how  to  go  about  it  but  was  out  of
practice,  so  that  to  make  any  haste  he  had  to  give  all  his  
attention  to  it.  When  towards  evening  his  pen
finally began moving a little faster, he felt almost grateful for the humdrum 
work which had helped him to
pass a day that he was already considering one of the worst in his life. Even 
when work stopped he felt
calmer than in the morning. He was able to present Sanneo with a big pile of 
answered letters for which
he at least expected gratitude.

In fact Sanneo was most polite. He made some comments on the drafting of one or 
two of the letters,
but explained gently and did not raise his voice, interpolating words of praise 
with the few of blame. For a
second or two Alfonso felt really happy; they were the first kind words he had 
heard in the bank since his
return.

When he was out in the open, on the spot where he had often made a little 
effort of will to walk towards
the  civic  library,  suddenly  the  horror  of  his  position  struck  him  
fully.  What  importance  was  Sanneo’s
sympathy compared to all the hatred there must be against him among his 
superiors? His working hard
and intelligently was not enough to diminish that hatred. He said to himself 
that the only way to get out of
it  all  was  to  resign  his  job,  but  he  did  not  feel  like  doing  
that.  It  was  the  hatred  and  contempt  which
dismayed  him,  not  the  fear  of  any  victimisation  that  could  come  from 
 it.  Once  more  he  was  not  being
sincere with himself and did not reach a clear realization of why he was not 
leaving his job. He did not tell
himself  that his  only hope  was to  attenuate  that  hatred and get  those  
who  despised him  to respect  him,
but  he  tried  to  convince  himself  that  he  was  staying  on  at  Maller’s 
 because  he  did  not  yet  know  if  that
hatred  would  show  or  even  if  it  really  existed.  Perhaps  another  
tacit  renunciation  such  as  he  wanted  to
make would be enough.

Just as he was about to enter Lanucci’s door, he heard himself called. It was 
Francesca, who had been
waiting for him in the street.

“I’ve been waiting half-an-hour for you.” She called him without moving, then 
walked only a little way
towards him with her firm unhurried step.

“I am charged by Annetta to tell you to forget her; she will do the same.”

The  brevity  of  the  announcement  had  certainly  been  thought  out  to  
give  him  the  most  surprise  and
pain. But he was prepared for the worst now and greeted almost joyfully someone 
who had finally come to
give him explanations.

“I’m resigned to it!” he replied and found nothing else to say. Then he 
hesitated so long that Francesca
began moving away, but he stopped her; she was the only person from whom he 
could hope to have exact
information on how they felt about him at the Mallers, and once this chance of 
talking with her was lost,
he     knew that he would not easily find another.

“But  why,  why?”  he  asked  in  a  strangled  voice.  That  was  not  the  
question  he  had  intended;  he  would
have liked to ask straight out what was required of him, but thought it too 
abrupt.

“You  must  know  the  reason;  I’d  explained  it  more  or  less  before  it  
even  happened.”  Her  voice  was
trembling  now,  but  with  anger.  “You  left  as  if  you  were  escaping  
from  a  woman  out  to  trap  you,  and
Annetta was quite right.”

“But my mother died!” protested Alfonso. “Isn’t that enough to explain my 
absence?”
Francesca remained cold.

“You  didn’t  know  she  was  ill  when  you  left,  or  you’d  have  told  me. 
 You  were  escaping  from  the
consequences of your good luck, that is how I explained your flight.”

Her small face was always composed, its pale features always the same, but she 
was growing more and
more  heated  without  making  any  gesture  to  show  it.  He  could  hear  
the  anger  in  that  voice;  she  was
saying things that only anger could have made her confess so explicitly.

She considered the battle lost and was leaving the field. Her first great 
disaster, she realized, had been
to have people like the Mallers to deal with; then it was Alfonso who had 
decided her fate.

“I’d be Maller’s wife by this time if you hadn’t suddenly turned up. You’re a 
sort I hope there are very
few of, a swine!”

He already knew that Francesca was Maller’s mistress, and her revelations 
surprised him only because
they came from her own lips, but that was enough to make him forget to draw 
from her the news he so
much  wanted.  He  stood  listening  to  her  with  his  mouth  open,  amazed  
at  this  vital  woman  who  in
misfortune felt nothing but anger at her own failure.

She  went  on  talking.  She  told  him  that  a  few  days  after  his  
departure  Annetta  had  composed  herself
and probably had begun to influence her father against Francesca. She had 
realized this by a change in
Maller’s behaviour and had then written to Alfonso that letter which he had at 
once realized to be a call
for help.

“My chief consolation in my misery is knowing you’re miserable too.”

With  these  words  she  left  him,  and  he  did  not  try  to  stop  her.  It 
 would  have  been  useless  to  ask  her
anything  apart  from  what  was  on  her  mind.  Anyway,  would  she  have  
had  time  to  explain  the  Mallers’


intentions towards him and what they expected his behaviour to be? She had not 
come with any intention
of  bringing  him  comfort  or  calm;  she  had  carried  out  with  glee  a  
mission  from  Annetta,  hoping  to  hurt
him, and added on her own what she thought would make it hurt more.

Yet this exchange did give him some tranquillity. Of all Francesca’s words only 
the first ones made an
impression,  Annetta’s  message.  She  sent  to  ask  him  to  forget  her.  
Then  she  wanted  him  to  keep  quiet,
that was all. This was enough for him to decide to adopt the bearing which from 
the start had seemed to
him most natural and which could in some way make his position easier. He would 
bother neither about
Annetta nor about Macario; at least the bitterness caused by Miceni’s words 
would vanish.

He returned to town, feeling an intense desire to reflect more deeply. He had 
an unpleasant sensation
of not having understood the situation completely even now, and every new word 
he heard seemed to him
to be changing it utterly.

He  wasn’t  so  badly  off  in  his  little  job—he  thought  of  that  day  
spent  at  work—and  would  stay  in  it.  If
Annetta  was  asking  for  his  silence,  surely  Maller  himself  would  want  
no  more  and  would  be  careful  to
take no step which might reveal to others why he hated his own employee.

He would keep calm amid this hatred, do his duty at the bank, and not expect 
any lessening of hatred to
come from his work but from his demeanour. He would behave in such a way that 
it would eventually be
thought he had forgotten everything. That was more than he had been asked.

He had never really loved her; now he hated her for the disquiet she was 
causing. If he was asked just
to forget her, he would certainly do that.

In the street he ran into Gustavo, who greeted him.

“At last. I thought I’d never see you again! We’ve had no end of trouble since 
you left. Has mother told
you? And have you seen father?”

Alfonso looked at him closely to see what impression those misfortunes had 
produced in him. He looked
the  same  as  usual,  filthy,  a  cigarette  in  his  mouth,  hat  tilted  
rakishly  over  the  right  eye.  Only  when  he
asked if his mother had told Alfonso of Gralli’s desertion did he show a gleam 
of anger.

In the Lanuccis’ living-room there was utter gloom. A yellowish tablecloth, a 
few squalid napkins and all
those pale anaemic faces around the table made it the picture of disconsolate 
misery.

“Dammit,” muttered Gustavo, “with all these long faces one can’t digest even 
the little one eats.” Then
turning to Alfonso: “I’d be the same as usual if it weren’t for them …”

Alfonso from his corner tried to support his attempt to shake the two women out 
of their gloom.
“Yes, indeed,” he said, “I can’t understand either why they’re so mute.”

Signora  Lanucci,  who  was  lifting  a  piece  of  broiled  meat  to  her  
mouth,  put  it  back  on  her  plate;  food
revolted her. Lucia raised her eyes, swivelled them to force a smile and give 
Gustavo the lie, but the smile
did  not  appear;  she  burst  into  tears,  hid  her  face  in  her  napkin  
and  unable  to  control  herself  slowly  left
the room, sobbing violently to avoid everyone’s eyes. Old Lanucci shouted 
uselessly after her not to move
from  table  while  they  were  at  supper  because  he  would  not  tolerate  
it.  Now  that  he  could  not  move  he
particularly disliked confusion; for, exaggerating a cure prescribed by the 
doctor, he had his legs bound in
heavy blankets under the table.

“It’s all because of that Gralli business,” said Signora Lanucci, in a voice 
suffocated by supressed tears.
“You can understand a girl being unable to put up in cold blood with such 
treatment, with no reason, for
it’s sure she gave him none, poor girl. She loved him.”

“I  offered  to  go  and  break  that  little  man’s  head,  but  they  forbade 
 me,”  yelled  Gustavo.  He  wanted  to
show that he was not passive at his sister’s disaster.

“Oh,” said Signora Lanucci, “no extremes! He still might not desert her, and as 
long as there’s been no
violence things might still work out.”

She explained to Alfonso that, although she had not liked Gralli at first, she 
was now supporting Lucia’s
hopes because the girl’s gloom showed she was in love.

After  that,  on  the  old  man’s  suggestion,  they  did  not  talk  of  it  
again,  but  they  did  not  talk  of  anything
else either.

Lanucci  was  first  to  go  to  bed,  and  while  he  was  walking  slowly  
off,  leaning  on  his  wife’s  arm,  he
complained  of  various  aches  and  pains,  but  she  would  not  listen  and  
urged  him  impatiently  to  move
forward when he obviously wanted to stop and catch his breath.

Exhausted  first  by  the  journey  and  then  by  work  and  the  day’s  
agitations,  it  was  a  joy  for  Alfonso  to
stretch  out  in  bed.  He  hurriedly  put  out  the  light  and  flung  
himself  on  his  side  with  a  deep  sigh  of
satisfaction, looking like a man exhausted after pleasure.

Then Gustavo came in after politely asking permission.

“You’ve already put the light out, have you? Are you very tired?”
“Yes, very.”

Slowly  and  with  an  effort  Alfonso  told  him  how  ill  he  had  been  and 
 how  his  illness  had  left  him  very
weak. He thought that Gustavo must soon leave and was on the point of dozing 
off. Instead Gustavo from
very close, talked on and on without asking for any reply. Alfonso understood 
all that was being said, but
in his weariness the facts told him came as no surprise. He did not even feel 
stirred at the thought of his
own relationship with Annetta which Gustavo’s words recalled.

“Oh! Just a few words!” said Gustavo in a low voice. He declared that he did 
not in the least approve of
Lucia’s  great  sorrow  for  a  man  who  did  not  deserve  it.  “There’s  
something  else  at  the  heart  of  this,”  he
said lowering his voice threateningly. “It’s not natural for Lucia to get in 
such a state about a swine like
that leaving her.” He  declared that he  was talking to Alfonso like  a 
brother. What he  supposed  was  that
Lucia  had  been  over-trusting  and  given  herself  to  Mario  Gralli.  “I’ll 
 kill  him,  if  I  go  to  prison  for  it,”  he


repeated in a louder voice, “I’ll kill him if he’s abused our confidence like 
that.”

Alfonso  understood,  but  his  one  desire  was  for  Gustavo  to  leave  him  
as  soon  as  possible.  He  was  still
reasoning, however, and felt it a duty to protest in Lucia’s name.

“Lucia’s a decent girl and you’re wrong,” he said without raising his head from 
the pillow.
“Decent?” shouted Gustavo. “She’s a girl, so she’s weak.”

From the living-room came a cry and the sound of noisy weeping. Alfonso heard 
Signora Lanucci’s voice
first low, obviously trying to calm Lucia, then louder; she was calling 
Gustavo. The latter hurried out and
closed the door behind him. Then Alfonso heard an excited discussion, one voice 
trying to talk the other
down  while  both  were  accompanied  by  Lucia’s  weak  and  continuous  sobs. 
 Suddenly  these  ceased,  and
Lucia  spoke  in  a  clear  voice,  accentuating  each  syllable,  word  by  
word;  she  was  swearing  or  promising.
All that did not succeed in shaking Alfonso out of his torpor; he felt so weak 
and indifferent that all this
seemed like the symptoms of a new attack of fever. Another time he thought that 
the door of his room was
opened and that Gustavo called him in a low voice, apparently only to make sure 
that he was asleep.

He did not reply, incapable of coming to.

Alfonso rose refreshed from sleep. He now knew quite well that the night before 
he had been present at
a real scene, but he had not grasped its details enough to understand how 
important he should consider
the doubts so hurriedly told to him by Gustavo. Certainly Lucia’s voice had not 
sounded like one at fault,
and Alfonso found that enough for him to believe in her complete innocence. As 
soon as Alfonso woke up,
his  own  worries  seized  him  again,  and  he  could  not  turn  his  whole  
mind  to  studying  facts  that  did  not
concern him directly.

In the living-room he only found Gustavo, sipping at his coffee.

“Excuse me for not listening to you last night,” he said frankly, “I was so 
tired that I fell asleep as you
were talking and never understood a thing even before falling asleep. What did 
you want to tell me?”

Gustavo looked up from his saucer and glanced at him suspiciously.

“All the better,” he said to him. “I was a bit drunk and don’t know what I told 
you.”

That  he  was  drunk  was  not  true,  but  Alfonso  did  not  try  to  think  
out  why  he  was  being  told  a  lie.
Perhaps, and this was the kindest interpretation, Gustavo was lying to excuse 
himself for having said and
thought things that were untrue.


XVIII

N  THE  BANK,  walking  down  the  passage  towards  his  room,  Alfonso  felt  
the  same  acute  sensation  of
uneasiness  as  the  day  before.  He  met  no  one  whom  he  did  not  want  
to  meet,  but  was  glad  when  he
reached his little office. It was uncomfortable to be in a place where he might 
suddenly find himself face

to face with Maller.

Alchieri greeted him in his usual brusque joking manner. He told him that he 
had read through the file
and been amazed at the great numbers of letters of his in it.

“Take care not to work too hard or you’ll harm others!”

This observation pleased Alfonso. If Alchieri had noticed the great amount of 
work he had done, Maller
would realize it all the more, since every letter came to him to sign.

Towards ten o’clock Alchieri prepared to go off to Jassy’s funeral. He bemoaned 
the five francs he had
been made to pay out.

“At least I’m able to attend the funeral and get out of the office for an hour.”
Off he went as if to a celebration.

Alfonso   did   not   want   to   go,   because   Maller   would   be   sure   
to   be   there.   He   was   saved   from
embarrassment by Sanneo, who asked him to stay on at the bank as everyone else 
in the correspondence
department  wanted  to  pay  Jassy  their  last  respects  since  they  had  
been  closely  connected  with  him.
Someone had to stay in the department because although Signor Maller would 
probably go to the funeral
too, he had not said so and might, if he stayed at the bank, need a letter or 
information.

Alfonso gave such a start that Sanneo noticed it.

“Oh he won’t ask you much!” he said to soothe him. “At the worst you’ll have to 
do some moving around
the bank after a bit of paper.” So he ran the same risks by staying as by going 
to the funeral.

But  how  lovely  it  would  be  if  he  were  always  left  so  quiet.  
Usually,  although  his  room  was  out  of  the
way, from the passage and other offices came sounds which were often indistinct 
but always bothersome
because  continuous;  but  that  day  he  could  only  hear  the  step  or  
voice  of  one  person  or  other,  repeated
and at long intervals. The courtyard which the window of his room overlooked 
was always silent.

His solitude did not last long. There was a knock at the door and he got up in 
alarm and called: “Come
in!”

It  was  a  woman,  a  seamstress  by  the  look  of  her;  she  had  a  black  
veil  on  her  fair  hair,  and  her  dress,
though  worn,  was  decent  and  worn  carefully  and  with  good  taste.  She  
looked  at  him,  waiting  to  be
recognized.

“Don’t  you  know  me?”  and  she  stood  hesitatingly  by  the  door,  maybe  
already  regretting  having  come
there. “Signor White introduced us.”

“Ah! Signora White!” he cried in surprise, offering her a chair. Now he 
remembered the fair pale face
which  he  had  seen  bent  over  a  loom  in  White’s  home.  He  tried  to  
get  out  of  his  embarrassment.  “Do
excuse  me  for  not  recognizing  you,  but  I’ve  not  seen  you  in  a  veil 
 before;  it  makes  you  look  quite
different.”

She gave a smile which was forced and understated at the same time; her mind 
was not ready to cope
with him. She said that she was coming to him because he might know something 
about his friend White.
She spoke in dialect.

“Don’t you write to him?” asked Alfonso in great surprise.

He  had  remembered  that  on  White’s  departure  his  mistress  had  
remained.  A  fine  figure,  this  French
woman. Tall, straight, firm; feminine lines on a sturdy body.

“The last letter I received was from Marseilles,” she said flushing.

Her  blush  confirmed  that  this  phrase  was  a  confession;  it  explained  
why  White  had  no  scruples  in
breaking off their relationship from one day to the next; it made their 
connection seem very superficial.

He pretended not to understand.

“Perhaps he’s not reached his destination!”

He knew quite well that White could have gone round the world in that time.

“Oh!  I  know  he’s  arrived  because  I  heard  it  from  another  source,  
his  brother  in  London.  D’you  know
where he is now?”

By his urge to show sympathy Alfonso betrayed how much he’d understood. “I’m 
sorry I don’t,” he burst
out, “for if I did, I’d tell you in spite of my friendship with him.”

He was taking her side so definitely because he sensed some similarity between 
this woman’s grief and
Lucia’s. White, with all his gentlemanly airs, was behaving worse than Gralli.

The woman’s blue eyes filled with tears which did not well over; they vanished 
again without staining
her  cheeks.  She  had  no  air  of  making  confidences  but  spoke  as  if  
Alfonso  had  already  been  told
everything.

“He  thought  he  was  fulfilling  all  his  obligations  to  me  by  
pensioning  me  off.”  She  raised  her  head
proudly, “I hoped in a few months to earn enough to do without his help.”

Alchieri entered singing, pleased with his outing. Finding a woman there he was 
confused and excused
himself.

The conversation so well under way was over.

Alfonso  stopped  her  at  the  door  a  minute  to  advise  her  to  ask  
Maller,  who  should  know  where  White
was. The woman’s beauty and pride increased his wish to help her.


She replied that she had already been to Maller, who had declared he knew 
nothing.

“They’re in league,” she added contemptuously. Then, maybe humiliated at having 
aroused the pity that
Alfonso showed, she added, “Anyway, I don’t really know why I’m trying to get 
his address. I’d only use it
to send him insults, useless because he must already know what I’d say if I 
could.”

Alfonso would have remained moved by this odd visitor if, on the departure of 
Signora White, as he kept
calling her, she had not bid him a frosty goodbye, barely polite and enough to 
show how little she cared
about any sympathy from him.

Sanneo called Alfonso to thank him and ask him if anything had happened during 
his absence.

On  returning  to  his  desk  he  met  Signor  Maller  for  the  first  time.  
He  could  have  avoided  him,  since
Maller,  just  back  from  the  funeral,  was  walking  ahead  of  him  towards 
 his  room,  but  Alfonso  thought  he
had  been  seen  and  did  not  want  to  give  him  the  impression  of  
fearing  this  meeting.  He  hastened  past
Maller and gave him a bow; he was not sure, but thought Maller bowed his head 
in return. Before moving
into  the  little  passage  to  the  left  he  turned  round  and  saw  
Maller’s  back  just  entering  his  office.  The
managing director’s face was deep red, and Alfonso was uncertain whether that 
redness was produced by
the flurry of the sudden meeting or whether that was its usual colour which 
Alfonso had forgotten.

This  meeting  put  him  in  a  state  of  agitation  the  whole  day  long,  
an  agitation  which  resulted  in  an
increased output of work. His activity now was in direct ratio to his disquiet 
about relations with Maller.
At midday he did not dare leave the office at once in case he should again see 
Signor Maller, who was in
the habit of going to the Stock Exchange at that hour.

Ballina kept him back with his chatter. Alchieri had told Alfonso that 
Ballina’s good humour had sadly
deteriorated  of  late.  The  ex-officer  had  not  grasped  the  exact  nature 
 of  this  change  but  realized  that  it
was a change for the worse. Ballina was still happy and laughed a lot, but more 
at other people’s expense
and  with  a  touch  of  spite.  His  position  had  not  worsened  and  no  
misfortune  had  struck  him,  but  he
declared himself tired of struggling against poverty.

“When I think ten years ago what I thought I’d be at thirty-five and then 
consider what I actually am, it
puts me into a cold sweat,” he told Alfonso, who asked after his health.

A  short  time  before,  a  new  clerk  called  Brovicci  had  entered  the  
correspondence  department;  he  was
very young and knew nothing but was so well recommended that he had been put on 
the payroll at once
and with a higher salary than Alfonso’s. He dressed carelessly, often even 
dirtily, and made heavy weather
of the copying work to which Sanneo had relegated him. He was not liked by his 
colleagues, and Ballina
had a particular loathing for him.

“He has a hundred or two hundred thousand francs of his own and comes here to 
take the bread from
the mouths of us poor.”

Alfonso did not believe him.

“Yes,”  said  Ballina,  “it’s  difficult  to  believe,  and  one  never  would  
if  one  didn’t  know  that  the  more
money people have the sillier they become.”

Then,  forgetting  Brovicci,  he  had  a  return  of  his  old  rancourless  
good  humour  and  asserted  that  he
himself was sillier with his money at the beginning of the month, as soon as he 
got his pay, than he was at
the end; by the last days of each month he was spending only on bare 
necessities.

Alfonso’s  work  at  the  bank  was  now  satisfying  to  him  because  there  
was  a  great  deal  of  it,  and  he
concentrated on it intensely, with the constant stimulus of perhaps meeting 
with Maller or a brusque nod
from  Cellani.  In  the  evening  Alfonso  would  leave  the  bank  exhausted,  
calm  and  satisfied  with  the  work
completed, and think of it with pleasure even outside the office. Surprised at 
himself, he would sometimes
wonder if he had not been wrong about his own qualities and whether such a life 
was not exactly the most
suitable  to  his  constitution.  The  old  habit  of  daydreaming  remained  
as  megalomaniac  as  ever,  but  it
evoked  quite  different  fantasies.  Now  in  his  daydreams  he  would  
attribute  to  himself  extraordinary
diligence  which  simply  had  to  be  highly  praised  by  Sanneo  and  by  
his  bosses;  and  he  imagined  this
diligence of his saving the bank from ruin.

As a result of this activity, and for other reasons too, Alfonso felt easier in 
his job. If it was not quite up
to  his  daydreams,  Sanneo  did  praise  him,  which  was  a  lot  compared  
to  the  way  his  superior  usually
treated  his  clerks  so  as  not  to  spoil  them  by  praise.  His  
consideration  for  Alfonso  was  quite  unusual.
Sanneo gave young Giacomo orders to serve him and run errands for him round the 
bank for any papers
or files that he needed. Alfonso was very grateful because he hated those long 
searches, work of which no
trace remained and about which the management could therefore know nothing at 
all.

Without the irritation of these useless searches his life grew calmer than 
ever. During the day he spoke
little and always with the same people. In the street he felt ill at ease and 
hurried along to reach his office
or home.

He was, he thought, very close to the ideal state he dreamed of in his reading, 
the state of renunciation
and quiet. He no longer even felt agitation to work up energy for more 
renunciation. No one ever offered
him  anything:  by  his  last  renunciation  he  had  saved  himself,  he  
thought,  from  the  depths  to  which  he
might have been dragged by an urge for enjoyment.

He did not want things to be different. Apart from fears for the future and 
regret at the hatred of which
he knew himself to be the object, he was content, balanced in mind as an old 
man. Certainly, as he was
well aware, his peace was the result of the strange events of the last months, 
which had thrown over him,
as it were, a leaden cloak preventing any deviation whatsoever; all his mind 
was on those events, either
admiring the greatness of his own sacrifice or wondering how to avoid the 
dangers still threatening him.
He  was anyway calmer than in those discontented years he had spent at the bank 
before, years of restless
and  ambitious  living  in  accordance  with  the  blind  sensations  of  the  
moment.  Now  he  had  forgotten  his


dreams of grandeur and riches and could muse for hours without a woman’s face 
appearing once among
his ghosts.

He  dreamt  of  this  peace  increasing  even  more,  of  him  remaining  as  
he  was  and  forgetting  Annetta
entirely and being forgotten by her and the others. He dreamt too of lessening 
Maller’s hatred and being
greeted  by  him  once  again  as  he  had  been  that  night  in  his  office  
when  called  in  and  encouraged  so
kindly. What about Macario? Did Macario know how many reasons he had to hate 
him?

An  improvement  of  his  position  in  the  bank  was  not  among  his  
dreams.  The  income  from  his  little
capital, together with his salary, should suffice, and he expected nothing from 
his chiefs except to be left
quiet in his place.

Around him in the bank went on battles whose savagery made him realize better 
the superiority of his
own  position  above  such  struggles,  petty  as  they  were  savage.  In  the 
 lowest  grades  they  were  battles
among  the  messenger  boys  for  jobs  near  the  management,  which  extended 
 as  far  up  as  a  battle  then
going on for the post of founder and manager of a branch about to be set up by 
the Maller Bank in Venice.
For this post in Venice were battling two old men, Doctor Ciappi and Rultini, 
both persons with whom

Alfonso had had little or nothing to do till then.

Doctor  Ciappi  had  only  been  employed  at  the  Maller  Bank  for  a  short 
 time.  He  had  done  all  the
necessary  legal  studies,  but  being  of  a  poor  family  and  lacking  
sponsors  he  had  not  succeeded  in
acquiring  enough  clients  to  make  a  living  and  after  long  years  of  
useless  efforts  had  accepted  a  post
offered him by Maller as manager of the legal department and lawyer to the 
bank. It was a post which did
not give him the income he could hope for as manager of the branch in Venice.

Rultini  had  also  entered  Mallers  when  already  old.  He  had  been  given 
 the  post  of  receiver  more  from
deference for his white hairs than for his ability; but what was worse, as all 
knew, was that he felt himself
not up to his job, due to his slowness and lack of practice in stock exchange 
dealings. That was the chief
reason why he was competing for the post of manager in Venice; for, as the new 
branch was to be entirely
dependent on the main office, the post was a responsible but not difficult one.

The four old men of the bank, Rultini, Ciappi, Jassy and Marlucci had been 
close friends, linked by their
ages, which cut them off from the youths invading the bank; but the friendship 
best known and admired
had  been  between  Rultini  and  Ciappi.  Rultini,  a  first-class  linguist,  
helped  Ciappi  when  the  legal  office
had to draft letters requiring great purity or clarity of style, and on 
settlement days Ciappi was often with
Rultini to help him through the terrible complications of the day. But at the 
funeral of Jassy, the oldest of
the  four,  for  the  first  time  the  two  white  heads  were  seen  apart.  
The  Doctor  (as  Ciappi  was  called  from
respect)  glanced  secretly  towards  Rultini,  waiting  for  the  other  to  
approach  him;  but  the  Professor
(Rultini  was  somewhat  ironically  called  Professor,  due  to  his  
linguistic  studies)  was  looking  elsewhere,
hard  and  stubborn.  From  then  on  they  did  not  exchange  another  word,  
which  aroused  general  surprise
because  the  matter  of  the  Venice  post  had  already  lasted  a  long  
time,  and  at  the  beginning  the  two  old
men had pretended to be even closer friends than usual.

Ciappi  said  there  had  been  a  dispute  which  he  never  thought  Rultini  
would  consider  so  important;  it
had broken out in the tavern  for  some  futile  reason,  a  light  word  from  
him,  spoken  without  malice.  One
day in Alfonso’s room he showed signs of wanting to talk about his relations 
with Rultini. Alfonso realized
this to be an astute but mistaken diplomatic move; Ciappi thought he was still 
a friend of the Mallers and
hoped to win his sympathy and influence Maller through him.

“Rultini hates me now; that’s the reason why a simple discussion, of which 
we’ve had a number already,
could  degenerate  in  such  a  way.  He  thinks  I’ve  betrayed  him,  but  
even  for  a  friend  like  him  I  couldn’t
sacrifice  the  biggest  job  I  could  ever  aspire  to.  I  tried  to  remain 
 his  friend  and  limit  our  rivalry  to  that
matter only. But he lost his head in a most improper way.”

Ciappi’s indignation was all very well, and human, but it was said at the bank 
that he had the greater
chance of victory, and in fact with his legal knowledge he seemed more suitable 
for a manager’s post than
did  the  other  with  his  languages;  so  Alfonso,  though  agreeing  with  
him,  thought  that  in  Rultini’s  place
Ciappi would not have been calm and reasonable either.

He  also  happened  to  hear  the  other  side.  He  had  gone  into  the  
counting  house  to  look  for  a  file  and
stopped  to  talk  to  Miceni,  while  Rultini  was  having  an  excited  
discussion  in  a  low  voice  with  Marlucci.
Miceni signalled to Alfonso to be quiet, and both stood stock-still but in an 
attitude of talking, so that the
other two, more and more excited, did not notice they were being overheard.

Rultini raised his voice first.

“He  knows  how  essential  that  job  is  to  me  because  my  position  here  
is  unbearable,  while  the  change
would bring little advantage to him. So this is treachery on his part.”

Marlucci  also  raised  his  voice  to  make  himself  heard,  but  calmly,  
like  one  who  finds  it  easy  to  see  the
matter objectively. Marlucci said no one could be expected to renounce such a 
chance out of friendship,
and  he  considered  wrong  whomever  had  first  made  a  business  rivalry  
into  a  private  quarrel.  It  was
Rultini’s duty to make peace with Ciappi as soon as was possible.

Rultini cried that he was ready to do anything, even renounce the post 
voluntarily, but not make peace.
His  hatred,  he  asserted,  did  not  only  come  from  their  rivalry  in  
business,  but  because  at  the  tavern,  in
front  of  other  people  and  without  any  consideration,  he  had  been  
blamed  for  a  mistake  at  the  last
receiver’s settlement.

“He’s  astute,  he  is!  He  puts  on  that  air  of  indifference,  but  
meanwhile  is  working  quietly  on  the  side,
stealing from me the little consideration I still have.”

On his fat, still-unlined face was a look of pained surprise that one so 
wretched as himself should also
be considered in the wrong, and Alfonso felt a twinge of pity for him.


When Rultini left, Marlucci with a nasty little laugh turned to Miceni.
“I told him my opinion.”

The unexpected happened. Maller gave the post of manager of the Venice branch 
to Rultini. The Venice
branch was only to take a passive part in movements of stocks and shares, that 
is to accept and transmit
orders to the main office, and perhaps one motive for making Maller take this 
decision was actually the
wish to rid himself of an incapable receiver.

The first announcement of this choice showed in the bearing of the two old men. 
They seemed to have
changed heads by magic. Rultini, who had been brusque and glum for years, 
became happy and friendly.
He  was  in  a  state  of  constant  festivity;  he  warmly  shook  the  hands  
proffered  in  congratulation  and  was
worried when he saw sad faces. One day he stopped Alfonso, with whom till then 
he had only exchanged a
few words, and asked him the reason for his gloom. Alfonso started and tried to 
think of some reply, but
Rultini  in  his  restless  joy  had  no  time  to  wait.  He  went  off,  
crying,  “Never  worry;  that’s  the  most
important  maxim  for  happiness.”  Actually  he  cared  very  little  about  
the  sadness  of  another,  but  it
surprised him. “What! Still someone complaining?”

There were others with sorrows in the bank as well as Alfonso. Ciappi came back 
to the office five days
later;  for  those  five  days  he  had  pleaded  illness.  The  first  day  he 
 only  stayed  an  hour  or  so  in  the  office
and  left  because  of  glances  from  his  colleagues,  who  knew  that  the  
news  was  a  surprise  to  him  and
wondered how he would take it; which was with some dignity, as all recognized 
after a few days. When he
began  to  work  he  did  not  seem  too  sad,  and  worked  as  precisely  as  
ever.  He  even  spoke  to  Rultini  on
business matters, though before his success the latter had avoided coming into 
contact with him even on
those.  Rultini,  to  complete  his  happiness,  wanted  only  to  make  peace  
with  his  old  friend  and  kept  on
giving him friendly glances, but Ciappi was silent and treated him with icy 
coldness. Even when he had to
talk to him about business he did not look him in the face.

“Oh! So it’s like that, is it? Now that he’s killed me off he wants my 
friendship, does he?”

Rultini  confessed  to  Marlucci  that  he  regretted  having  quarrelled  with 
 Ciappi  but  that  his  own  anger
had  been  justifiable,  for  it  would  have  been  an  obvious  injustice  if 
 Ciappi  had  been  the  one  preferred.
Ciappi had no right to bear a grudge.

“If he hands me his job here and his pay, and of course his knowledge too, so 
that I can feel up to his job
and happy at it, I’d be very ready to let him go to Venice in my place.”

These remarks were repeated to Ciappi too.

“Give him my knowledge? If he hadn’t always been such an ass, he’d have got it 
for himself. I guarantee
that however little is asked of him in that job it will always be too much, and 
if Maller doesn’t change his
mind,  he’ll  learn  one  day  that  his  branch  has  taken  an  independent  
decision—it’ll  go  bankrupt  on  its
own.”

Maller heard of this hatred, thought it more exaggerated than it actually was, 
and from prudence made
Rultini leave a week before the time arranged.

Rultini went to the station in the triumphant company of the oldest employees, 
including Marlucci and
Sanneo. Marlucci then said that he would greatly miss Rultini, his oldest 
friend in the bank.

“I can’t understand how Ciappi could have behaved like this.”

Alfonso,  before  whom  Marlucci  uttered  this  phrase,  thought  the  Tuscan  
must  have  a  habit  of  always
being on the winning side.

One of the most indomitable fighters was Giacomo, the little boy with pink 
cheeks, of whom Alfonso had
been so fond. The lad had grown, got thinner, and entirely lost the colour he 
had brought from his native
Friuli; his face as it lengthened had taken on the shape of its regular but 
large bone structure.

The  messenger  boys  of  the  bank  were  considered  clerks  and  attached  
each  to  a  department,  the
counting   house,   the   receiving   and   correspondence   departments;   
their   immediate   heads   were   the
managers of these various offices. But in time a custom had grown up, begun by 
Maller himself, of senior
executives  having  a  messenger  boy  of  their  own  and  making  him  partly 
 into  a  servant,  paying  him
separately. Jobs for them made up the office boys’ day, which was only partly 
filled by other office duties.

Cellani had chosen an ex-ostler, Antonio, and though he was carelessly looked 
after, put up with him for
years.  With  the  best  intentions  one  day  he  suggested  Antonio  getting  
Giacomo  to  help  him;  Antonio
accepted gratefully and made the mistake of taking advantage of the help 
offered. From that day it was
Giacomo  who  cleaned  Cellani’s  room  and  put  back  in  their  places  any  
books  consulted  during  the  day;
often Antonio would even assign to Giacomo the job of taking Cellani his tea 
twice a day. The lad quickly
realized the use he could make of this situation and was most zealous in 
Cellani’s service, at the expense,
when it was unavoidable, of the bank.

On New Year’s Eve Cellani, in spite of his good nature, forgot Antonio, whom he 
scarcely ever saw, and
gave a tip to Giacomo. This was a surprise to Antonio, who had not calculated 
the natural consequences
of  his  inertia.  He  did  not  dare  complain,  but  tried  to  change  the  
arrangements  and  forbade  Giacomo  to
work for Cellani any longer. He then set himself to carry out alone all the 
chores of his job so as to reap
full benefit from it.

But  it  was  too  late.  The  very  next  day  Cellani  noticed  the  change  
because  he  was  now  used  to  better
service.  He  called  Giacomo  to  complain  of  his  desk  being  left  dirty. 
 In  came  the  youth  and  quickly  said
what he had been turning over in his mind since Antonio had forbidden him to 
set foot in Cellani’s room;
he had calculated all the consequences and was not taken by surprise.

“You  know,  it  wasn’t  I  who  did  out  the  room  today,  it  was  Antonio. 
 I’d  started  on  it,  and  he  sent  me
away.”

It was the second of January, and the tips had been distributed on the first, 
so that Cellani found it easy


to  connect  Antonio’s  new  zeal  with  that.  He  understood  and  was  
touched.  He  gave  Antonio  money,  but
could not take his side entirely and asked him to let Giacomo do his room. His 
comfort had become dear
to him.

This  dismissal  was  a  disaster  to  Antonio,  for  it  meant  lower  pay  
without  any  perceptible  lessening  of
work. The counting house clerks for whom he worked had given him little to do 
out of regard for Cellani,
but  now  he  was  again  made  to  rush  around  town,  drawing  out  and  
paying  in  money.  What  was  more,
knowing he had only the counting house job now, when the other offices needed 
more messengers, they
often asked the chief cashier for permission to make use of Antonio.

He himself told Alfonso his sorrows. Sanneo wanted the paper reserve, which had 
till then been kept in
the counting house, taken to the correspondence department, and Antonio, Santo 
and Giacomo were told
to carry it across. Soon the latter two left because an electric bell in the 
passage kept on ringing for them.
They did not return, and for two hours Antonio puffed and panted with packets 
of bundled paper as heavy
as, in his own words, lead.

“Aren’t you in Signor Cellani’s service any longer?” Alfonso asked him.

“What, you didn’t know?” asked Antonio, amazed that everyone didn’t know of his 
misfortune. “I upset
a cup of tea, and Signor Cellani wouldn’t forgive me.” He did not confess that 
he had lost his job because
he was so slow at it, since he did not want to spare Giacomo the rebuke which 
the boy actually deserved.
“If it hadn’t been for that darned boy, who pushed himself forward and spoke 
ill of me to Signor Cellani,
I’d still be in my job at this very hour.”

Giacomo told Alfonso clearly and frankly how the whole matter had developed; 
Alfonso prodded his chin
and looked him seriously in his still childish eyes. “Did you really take 
Antonio’s job away?”

“Me?”  cried  Giacomo  with  a  satisfied  grin.  “The  fool  was  doing  
nothing.  He’s  blind  and  can’t  keep  on
his toes; so he wasn’t good enough for Signor Cellani.”

Alfonso left him, surprised at this clear lack of pity for the vanquished. I’d 
never let him touch my neck
if I’d any gold at my throat, he thought.

Now  that  he  knew  what  he  himself  lacked  compared  to  others,  he  felt 
 calm  and  content.  He  was  not
inferior, as he had so long thought. He could judge them from a detached, 
serene perspective, because he
had been in the struggle too and knew what it was like. And he pitied both 
victor and vanquished.

So convinced was he of the justice of his own feelings that sometimes it seemed 
almost easy to convince
others.

One evening he happened to be alone in the living-room with Lucia. She was 
truly a poor girl in need of
sympathy.  Grief  had  changed  her  expression  and  habits.  Now  that  she  
no  longer  concentrated  on  the
mending  and  embellishing  of  her  clothes,  their  poor  material  showed  
wear  and  tear  which  had  been
cleverly  hidden  before,  her  skirt  hung  on  her  thin  ungainly  body  as  
if  from  a  hanger,  her  waist  had  no
shape;  yet,  though  thin,  she  was  not  really  ugly.  Lucia  often  
sobbed,  sometimes  only  when  her  mother
reminded her of her grief by some reproof for her dreary sluttish appearance. 
The girl made no secret of
the  cause  of  her  sorrow;  she  had  never  spoken  in  front  of  Alfonso  
but  had  the  courage  to  protest  when
others did.

Could nothing console the poor girl? He felt like trying. He sat down next to 
her and spoke very sweetly
and sincerely and was very soon touched to notice that she seemed to be 
following him onto the heights
where he was trying to lead her, and that her ascent was being made easier for 
her by his own feelings.

He  talked  to  her  about  his  observations  on  life  over  the  years  and  
how  silly  he  had  come  to  find  both
our joys and sorrows. He reminded her of the lessons she must have had from 
priests and teachers. Life’s
value  consisted  in  something  quite  different  from  what  people  usually  
loved  it  for.  Priests  put  this  truth
too coldly and so were apt not to be believed, but it was true, profoundly 
true. It had been a surprise for
him  to  realize  this,  he  told  her;  that  it  was  not  the  rhetoric  of  
priests  and  school  teachers,  but  truth!  A
balanced life, a hard-working existence with modest aims, was worth more than 
the pleasures that riches
and love could give. The important element in happiness was peace of mind. She 
must not think that this
man  who  had  deceived  her  could  ever  enjoy  great  happiness,  for  
remorse,  lack  of  self-content,  was  the
worst of all misfortunes. But even if he lived as happily as he could, that 
could not matter to her, should
not hurt her. Why did she think of herself as so unfortunate? Could she not 
live calmly with her mother,
show  her  the  affection  which  the  old  woman  so  needed?  Was  that  not  
enough?  Simplicity  of  habits  was
happiness, goodness was happiness, peace was happiness. And nothing else.

She  had  not  quite  understood  all  this,  and  certainly  the  little  
which  she  did  understand  had  not
convinced  her,  but  she  admired  his  conviction  and  was  touched  by  his 
 ideas,  while  the  vast  amount
excluded in his peroration left her speechless. For him on the other hand that 
speech of his had been of
greater  importance  than  he  could  have  foreseen;  it  had  convinced  even 
 himself.  Never  had  he  been  so
clearly  conscious  of  feelings  long  burgeoning  in  his  mind.  Surprise  
at  the  discovery  of  his  own  serenity
prevented any regrets at his not achieving better results with Lucia. And she 
had given him a look which
meant anything but renunciation; it was dangerous to talk to that girl too 
warmly.

Now  he  knew  why  he  had  renounced  Annetta.  He  had  nothing  to  blame  
himself  for  because  he  had
acted  according  to  his  own  nature,  which  he  had  not  recognized  then. 
 It  was  good  to  know  at  last  the
forces motivating his own body, which brought him new surprises every day. By 
knowing them he would
now  be  able  to  avoid  other  deviations  from  the  road  his  nature  
imposed  on  him;  a  pleasant,  easy  road
without a goal.

He tried to resign himself to the false positions in which he still often found 
himself. Though he did not
consider  himself  justly  punished,  he  found  some  comfort  in  the  
thought  that  it  would  very  soon  all  be
forgotten; then as far as he was concerned he would never compromise his peace 
again.


Prarchi  wanted  him  to  see  Fumigi  and  asked  him  to  accompany  him  one 
 morning  to  the  café  at  the
railway  station  where  the  poor  man  spent  his  time  copying  out  
newspapers.  He  showed  him  one  of
Fumigi’s  writings,  a  fragment  which  he  carried  about  with  him.  It  
was  a  margin  torn  from  some
newspaper, filled with pencil marks so strongly made  that they tore  the  
paper. Some  of  the  letters  were
printed upside down, others in italics, but the latter were odd shapes, while 
the printed ones were copied
exactly.

He felt he had to go and see the sick man. Prarchi was as keen on the visit as 
if the illness had been his
own  creation,  and  Fumigi  a  creature  raised  by  himself.  Alfonso  was  
afraid  of  offending  him  by  showing
how little interest he took in it.

When  one  fine  morning  he  was  walking  along  towards  the  café  with  
Prarchi,  the  latter  told  him  that
Macario, who visited his cousin every day, would probably be there. Such a 
meeting seemed yet another
step  towards  peace  of  mind,  Alfonso  felt;  now  it  would  not  be  long  
before  he  knew  what  to  expect  from
that direction. It was unpleasant not to be prepared for this meeting, and 
while Prarchi continued to talk
to  him  about  Fumigi,  he  was  wondering  how  to  behave  with  Macario.  
It  would  be  easy  to  show  the
sympathy  he  had  before,  listen  with  all  ears  when  Macario  spoke,  and 
 finally  congratulate   him  on  his
engagement to Annetta, which, according to Prarchi, had now been official for 
the last few days. He did
not hate Macario, and this fiction should not be any great effort.

Such  was  the  bearing  suggested  by  circumstances.  Probably  Macario  knew 
 nothing,  and  his  attitude
would not reveal anything to Alfonso, but even if Annetta had told him all, as 
was her duty, Macario would
be careful to avoid showing this; though it must make him suffer, he would try 
to imitate Alfonso’s bearing
for which he would surely be grateful. During the short walk, though, he found 
himself imagining Macario
filled  with  hatred  at  the  sight  of  him  and  insulting  him  publicly  
as  an  enemy.  It  was  possible.  Macario
might well have forgiven Annetta to satisfy his own self-interested love, yet 
find he could not endure the
sight of the man whom he considered chiefly to blame.

Prarchi meanwhile was criticizing the Mallers. They were giving some money to 
Fumigi, but very little.
They let him go about with a male nurse, while they should have him accompanied 
by one of the family.

“By that idiot Federico, for instance.”

Annetta’s  brother  had  returned  to  town  two  months  ago  and  was  doing  
nothing  but  walk  around  the
main  streets  dressed  up  in  the  latest  Paris  fashions  with  a  short  
jacket  and  tight  trousers,  showing  his
spindly legs. Alfonso had not yet seen him.

They went through the front part of the café, a fine room with rather gaudy 
curtains in bright colours
not yet faded by time, then through a little door hidden by a green curtain, 
entered another oblong room
for billiards and cards.

No  one  was  there  except  Fumigi,  sitting  by  a  window  and  reading  a  
newspaper  so  attentively  that  he
did not notice the new arrivals. Only when Prarchi touched his shoulder did he 
turn slowly and look over
first  Prarchi  and  then  Alfonso  for  a  long  while,  with  a  smile  that  
seemed  doltish  only  because  it  was
constant and without cause, while Fumigi’s usual smile was rather insipid and 
fixed. His face was thinner,
more haggard, but his body, sitting, seemed not to have lost any of its 
straightness. He was chewing, and
Alfonso  thought  that  he  had  something  in  his  mouth;  he  seemed  at  
first  sight  to  want  to  talk  but  soon
forgot their presence and began reading again with compulsive eagerness.

“Signor Fumigi!” said Prarchi out loud, shaking him. “Don’t you recognize this 
man?”

Fumigi looked at Alfonso for a long time and, thinking he recognized him, gave 
a little cry of surprise;
then he changed his mind and decided he didn’t.

“How are you?”

Obviously he was making no more effort at recognition; he had lost his memory 
but not his courtesy.
“Very well thank you, and you?” asked Alfonso, touched.

“Well … well …”

Then he pointed to the newspaper and spat out some unintelligible words, 
wanting to describe what he
had read. Although the two young men made no move, Fumigi realized they did not 
understand him. He
repeated a phrase in a shout, then abbreviated it to enunciate it more 
carefully. Finally he renounced his
idea and contented himself with hissing the syllables of a name. It was that of 
a politician who had been
much  in  the  news  a  few  months  before.  He  plunged  back  into  his  
reading  after  an  instant’s  hesitation
while  he  glanced  at  his  two  companions,  with  the  questioning  look  of 
 a  dog  for  a  master  who  has
forbidden it to touch some meat.

“Is he always like this?” asked Alfonso in a whisper.

“You can talk out loud,” replied Prarchi, and made him move closer.

Fumigi was declaiming as he read, pausing with pleasure at certain words with 
clearer sounds. Then he
seemed to grow angry, shouted, mangled his sentences and repeated them.

Alfonso  got  between  the  light  and  the  newspaper.  The  poor  man  raised 
 his  head  after  an  instant’s
surprise at seeing a shadow projected on the newspaper. When the shadow 
vanished, he went calmly back
to work again.

Someone had entered the room, and even before hearing the voice Alfonso 
realized it was Macario. In
his  embarrassment  he  tried  to  put  off  this  meeting  and  began  looking 
 at  Fumigi  with  close  attention,
pretending not to notice Macario even when he heard him greeting Prarchi.

They went up to Fumigi and so to him.

“How are you?” asked Macario, clapping a hand on the sick man’s shoulder.

He  was  so  much  at  ease  that  he  might  not  have  seen  Alfonso.  When  
he  did  see  him,  no  change  came
over him—he remained impassive—then he gave an indifferent nod, as if they had 
met a few days before.


Alfonso  had  done  well  not  to  tell  Prarchi  that  he  would  be  seeing  
Macario  for  the  first  time  since  his
return, or Prarchi would have been surprised by Macario’s behaviour.

“Congratulations!”  muttered  Alfonso,  holding  out  a  hand  which  Macario  
shook  with  a  bow  that  was
polite but not friendly.

Then they said no more.

Prarchi had given some paper and a pencil to Fumigi who, though he had not 
asked for it, as soon as he
got it, began writing with care as if he was painting.

“Are you coming along?” Macario asked Prarchi. “There’s something I want to 
tell you.”

“What  are  you  doing?”  Prarchi  asked  Alfonso,  not  asking  him  along  on 
 purpose  because  Macario  had
shown sufficiently clearly that he wanted to be alone with him.

“I have to pay a visit nearby,” said Alfonso and went out after shaking 
Prarchi’s hand but not Macario’s,
though the other was holding it out mechanically.

He  was  annoyed.  Now  that  he  had  put  up  with  Macario’s  bearing  it  
seemed  both  disagreeable  and
unjust; either way it should have been different; colder still if Annetta had 
told him everything, friendly as
usual otherwise. He had expected violent anger or glacial indifference, but 
never contempt. Macario was
treating him almost as Annetta had at the beginning, as a little clerk at 
Maller & Co’s bank, and Alfonso
had been ready for persecution but not contempt. He could resign himself to 
being thought a dangerous
enemy, an evil creature to be feared, but not someone who could be ignored.

Soon  he  had  to  laugh  at  himself,  seeing  the  obvious  contrast  between 
 his  intentions  and  his  feelings.
Did he  still  care  so  much about  Macario’s  friendship  to  be  as  sorry  
as  that  for having  lost  it?  He  should
have  liked  that  calm  coldness.  Presumably  Annetta  had  told  her  future 
 husband  a  part  of  what  had
happened, just enough to find an excuse to keep Alfonso out of her home for 
ever, and Macario’s coldness
had been merely gentlemanly affectation towards inferiors, increased by a 
reasonable antipathy towards
a person who, though with negative results, had tried to win Annetta’s love and 
perhaps given him a few
unpleasant   minutes   of   jealousy.   For   other   reasons   too   he   
would   have   preferred   ill-treatment   from
Macario. He might have had scruples of conscience for the trick Annetta was 
playing on Macario with his
help,  and  now  his  own  fault  was  diminished  by  the  fact  that  he  was 
 no  longer  betraying  a  friend  but  an
enemy.

His feelings remained the same in spite of all reasoning. He could not be 
grateful to Macario for cutting
off his friendship so soon and, as he supposed, without a motive.

That day he felt less happy than usual at the bank; the struggle to remain 
quietly at work revolted him.
The  desire  to  revenge  himself  on  Macario  made  him  have  strange  
fantasies.  He  imagined  his  position if
the  idyll  begun  with  Annetta  had  turned  out  differently.  In  that  
case  Macario  would  surely  have  treated
him as an equal, and for an instant that seemed incalculable happiness.


XIX

T  WAS  a  most  agitated  evening.  On  reaching  home  Alfonso  did  not  
immediately  notice  that  something
was seriously amiss with the Lanuccis; he was too preoccupied on his own 
account. Neither Lucia nor
Gustavo was in the living-room, and Signora Lanucci was sitting there, on a 
chair away from the table and
set    in an odd position, lost in thought, her eyes red with tears. The only 
person in his usual place was old

Lanucci, his legs wrapped up in blankets.

Alfonso had to turn all his attention on them, as they did not say a word or 
answer his questions, and
finally asked impatiently: “What on earth’s the matter with you all?” It cost a 
great effort to tear himself
away from his own thoughts.

Signora Lanucci did not seem to want to answer, but when she finally did, said 
much in a few words.
“Oh! Not a lot! We’ve only had to put up with poverty so far, now we have 
dishonour too.” The old man

protested and told her to keep quiet, but she shouted that it was something 
everyone would know sooner
or  later,  and  there  was  no  point  in  hiding  it  from  Alfonso.  She  
blurted  out  crudely:  “I’m  to  be  a
grandmother.”

Alfonso pretended to be greatly surprised by this news, which no one had yet 
told him explicitly. He had
had his suspicions because of some words dropped by Gustavo the night of his 
arrival; but then they had
been  denied,  and  he  had  not  stopped  to  examine  whether  Gustavo  was  
to  be  trusted  more  in  blurting
them out or in denying them.

He was told of an incident which had just happened and made Lucia betray 
herself. Apparently she had
realized her condition only that day, and in desperation rushed off to Gralli 
to tell him all and ask for his
help. Gralli had rejected her, saying that he could not take on the 
responsibility and was sorry but had to
leave her to her own devices. He offered her a monthly sum on condition of his 
being allowed free access
to her in the Lanucci home. The wretched girl lost her head, rushed to her 
mother and told her all.

“She’d be better dead! That would have been less of a grief, I assure you.”

By  her  excited  account  Signora  Lanucci  had  relieved  her  feelings  and  
acquired  sufficient  calm  to  try
and save the family honour which had been compromised, in Alfonso’s eyes, by 
the facts.

From  her  room  Lucia  heard  these  last  words,  which  had  been  shouted,  
and  began  to  sob  out  loud,
invoking her mother and asking her forgiveness.

“It’s too late for weeping, you should have thought of it before,” shouted 
Signora Lanucci pitilessly.

Lucia, poor girl, could not distinguish how much pretence there was in her 
mother’s words, as Alfonso
could—and  she  sobbed  louder  than  ever  without  saying  another  word;  
perhaps  she  too  thought  herself
worthy of death. Only for her did Alfonso feel any sympathy; Signora Lanucci’s 
cries dazed and bothered
him.

Old Lanucci imitated his wife.

“If I were a fit man,” he cried, “I’d go to the seducer, take him by the scruff 
of the neck and force him to
restore the honour he’s stolen from my daughter. But now I’d have to be carried 
to him on a chair.”

“Gustavo  went  to  Gralli!”  said  Signora  Lanucci  proudly,  and  when  
Alfonso  said,  unimpressed  and
somewhat  irritated,  that  he  should  have  been  stopped  in  case  a  
second  disaster  followed  the  first,  she
cried  that  they  could  not  be  made  to  accept  the  offence  quietly  and 
 that  it  would  be  a  good  thing  if
Gustavo killed the betrayer; she would not regret his action even though it 
cost him twenty years in jail.

But soon after, Gustavo reappeared safe and sound and more or less calm. He 
said he had been running
round  town  in  search  of  Gralli  for  two  hours  without  being  able  to  
find  him;  he  had  just  managed  to
discover where he’d be in half-an-hour; at a tavern not far away.

“I’m  off  there!”  and  he  made  the  words  ring  with  threat.  He  then  
asked  his  mother  details  about  the
day’s events. At first, when he had rushed off to find Gralli at all costs, he 
was under the impression that
his sister had been ill-treated when she went to him to ask him to marry her. 
He was relieved to hear that
was not true, and asked if he could eat something before leaving. Turning to 
Alfonso he then said, “What
d’you think of it all?”

Alfonso recommended him not to be rough with Gralli; things might still just 
possibly be settled, and it
would be a nuisance to have offended a future member of the family.

Then Gustavo did get angry, apparently with Alfonso; red in the face he cried:

“I’ll not be rough with him. I’ll just say: ‘Will you marry my sister or won’t 
you?’ If he replies ‘Yes’, I’ll
hug him and call him brother; if ‘No’, I’ll take him by the throat and he can 
start thinking of his soul, as
I’ll not leave him much time.”

His grateful mother threw her arms round his neck and kissed him. But she told 
him that she forbade
him  to  commit  murder  whatever  happened,  because  Gralli  was  not  worth  
going  to  jail  for.  The  poor
woman  was  afraid  of  risking  too  much  if  she  let  this  heroic  
play-acting  go  too  far.  But  Gustavo,
encouraged  by  her  caresses,  did  not  reply,  looking  like  a  man  who  
had  made  up  his  mind  and  was  not
prepared  to  listen  to  others.  Alfonso  offered  to  go  with  him  to  see 
 Gralli.  He  refused,  but  quite  gently.
Alfonso was really one of the family, though not everyone knew it.

Shortly  after  Gustavo  left,  Signora  Lanucci  was  seized  by  impatience  
and  went  to  the  window,  where
she stayed for about an hour in spite of the intense cold. The old man went to 
bed declaring that he knew
he  would  not  sleep  but  needed  the  warmth  of  bed  for  his  ills.  
Alfonso  began  reading.  The  old  clock
wheezed  away  every  quarter  of  an  hour;  it  was  no  longer  striking  
because  Gustavo  had  taken  out  the
chime.


“This delay seems a good sign, for if something awful had happened we’d know it 
by now,” said Signora
Lanucci,  drawing  back  from  the  window  and  looking  at  Alfonso  in  the  
hope  of  his  agreeing. He told her
that was how he understood the delay too.

From  the  street  the  sound  of  a  quarrel  rose.  Both  rushed  to  the  
window.  Slowly,  with  a  series  of  long
stops,  five  men  were  coming  up  the  slope  in  heated  discussion.  At  
intervals,  it  became  apparent,  two  of
them  would  face  up  to  each  other  and  be  kept  apart  by  force.  One  
was  Gustavo’s  height  and  the  other
Gralli’s,  or  so  it  seemed.  They  stopped  just  under  the  window,  and  
only  then  did  Alfonso  and  Signora
Lanucci  realize  that  neither  Gustavo  nor  Gralli  was  in  the  group.  
They  breathed  again  and  glanced  at
each other with relief.

Even so, the sight of this quarrel seemed to have cast a gloom over Signora 
Lanucci. She confessed she
had lost all hope and felt sure already of the fate reserved for her daughter. 
She knew what sort of man
Gralli  was.  She  had  not  paid  attention  before,  but  now  she  
remembered  details  of  his  behaviour  which
should have put her on her guard and made her suspect his sincerity.

“When one’s good oneself, it’s so difficult to suspect evil in others.”

She praised Alfonso; he was good and she felt it, knew he was revolted by evil. 
“It’s so nice to be with
someone one can really trust.” Then, going over in her mind all the pains she 
had taken to bring up that
only  daughter  of  hers,  she  asked  herself  if  there  was  any  justice  
in  this  world  when  all  her  efforts  had
come  to  such  an  end.  She  remembered  bitterly  that  the  engagement  to  
Gralli  had  been  a  grief  in  itself:
“I’d  hoped  better  for  Lucia.  Not  riches  or  noble  blood,  but  brains.  
Wasn’t  there  ever  a  chance  of  you
yourself falling in love with Lucia?”

It was the second time that she confessed this hope so frankly. This time too 
it came from deep emotion;
the shame urging her to melodrama a short time before had vanished, and now she 
felt only grief at her
daughter’s fate, not at the loss of family honour.

He was embarrassed and quoted some words said to him in anger by Lucia which he 
considered to be a
proof that she had never loved him.

“She did love you!” said Signora Lanucci with conviction. “She never told me, 
but I realized it and was
surprised  you  who  think  you  know  the  human  heart  did  not  realize  it 
 too.  Think  of  all  the  sorrows  that
would have been avoided!” So she thought it was by a mere misunderstanding he 
had not loved Lucia and
was  mourning  her  poor  daughter  being  so  ill-treated  by  fate.  Then  
she  came  out  with  a  blunder:  “How
wonderful, though, to tell Gralli if he does ask to marry Lucia as a result of 
Gustavo’s exhortations: ‘Go to
hell; we’ve got someone better, and you don’t deserve her!’”

Alfonso  did  not  open  his  mouth.  She  was  suggesting  he  should  marry  
Lucia.  It  was  appalling,  but  he
tried to understand and excuse it. He understood how this poor mother could 
lull herself with the hope of
saving her daughter from dishonour and at the same time avenge herself on the 
person who had wounded
the  girl’s  deepest  affection.  He  himself,  when  he  felt  at  his  most  
wretched,  took  refuge  in  unrealizable
dreams. She was asking him to sacrifice himself, for she could not think he 
really wanted to marry Lucia;
she had a high enough opinion of him to think him capable of such goodness. Why 
should he be offended?
Since he had adopted his own new ideas, this was the first time that he’d 
encountered anyone suggesting
that  he  actually  put  them  into  practice.  True,  rather  than  use  them  
herself,  Signora  Lanucci  wanted  to
impose them on others, but since she had spoken quite without artifice as if it 
was the most natural thing
in the world, she must be convinced that had she been in his shoes, she would 
herself have acted as she
was advising him to.

In his desire to help in some way he offered to go in search of Gustavo and 
bring back news. Signora
Lanucci thanked him, already cooler.

On  reaching  the  Via  degli  Artisti,  a  small  street  very  dark  at  that 
 hour,  the  tavern  seemed  shut;  he
knocked  and  was  pleased  at  hearing  someone  coming  to  open  up  after  
a  long  hesitation.  The  place  was
oddly  shaped;  to  create  it  one  or  two  dividing  walls  must  have  been 
 pulled  down,  traces  of  which  were
still to be seen in the middle of the terrace.

There were only two people there, sitting at a round table in a corner. One was 
Gustavo, whom Alfonso
recognized   in   spite   of   his   having   his   back   turned;   he   was   
clasping   his   head,   apparently   in   deep
meditation. The other was Gralli, who greeted Alfonso.

Seeing  them  seated  in  such  friendly  fashion  next  to  each  other  with  
empty  glasses  in  front  of  them,
Alfonso  thought  they  must  have  come  to  an  agreement  and  held  out  
his  hand  to  Gralli,  who  shook  it  at
once and ordered the innkeeper to bring another glass. A glance at Gustavo, who 
was laughing and told
him to drink as much as he could because it was all paid for, showed that this 
youth sent from home on
such a serious mission had allowed himself to get drunk.

“We’re  really  good  friends,  we  two!”  shouted  Gustavo  and  looked  at  
Gralli  affectionately.  “I  came
intending to give him a hiding, but found him so nice that it would be a crime 
to hurt him. You talk to him
and see. He’s really decent, and Lucia will be very happy with him.”

He burst into a roar of laughter.

He ordered more wine and Gralli asked for it to be brought, turning to Alfonso 
with a sly smile, “Have
as much wine as you want.”

“Enough wine,” intimated Alfonso, “drink water.”

“Water is for washing,” replied Gustavo wittily and drained a whole glass. 
After a long silence he began
laughing  again  and  cried  out  that  someone  was  tickling  his  brain.  “I 
 know  no  one  can  get  in  there,  but
someone seems to want to.” And he burst out laughing again.

Alfonso said that his mother was waiting for him at the window and had sent him 
to the tavern to bring
Gustavo home.


“Mother’s waiting for me?” asked Gustavo laughing. “Well, I’ll go now because 
I’ve talked to Gralli long
enough. And to think I wanted to hit ’im! Poor devil! With that dark little 
face of his.”

It  did  seem  impossible  that  this  little  man,  almost  lost  behind  the  
table,  was  the  seducer  whom  old
Signora Lanucci hoped to see dead.

“I’m  just  going  to  tell  Mother  I’ve  settled  things;  then  I’ll  be  
back.  It’s  only  right  the  poor  thing
shouldn’t be worried.”

He went off apparently intending to return at once, but was not seen again. 
Gralli roared with laughter.
“He came here breathing fire and brimstone and within half-an-hour I’d got him 
into the state you saw

him. For the last two hours we’ve been just as good friends as ever before.”

“And how did you settle things?” asked Alfonso, put out at finding himself 
treated as an accomplice, but
incapable of sharpness.

“Well, I can’t marry her!” said Gralli very calmly. “But I’ve no idea of 
leaving her; I’ll help her as long as
I  can.  The  family  are  bound  to  give  way  and  let  her  come  and  live 
 with  me.  My  boss  has  a  woman  like
that; he doesn’t want to tie himself up for life either. Marriage is too 
serious a matter. So why do it?”

The wine must have gone to his head too, although the effect was not as obvious 
as in Gustavo.
“But you seduced her, didn’t you?” observed Alfonso, very timidly.

“Seduced  her!  Never!  I’m  not  that  kind!  They  kept  on  leaving  us  
alone  together!  I’d  never  thought  of
anything else and she thought of it the whole time.”

“But  why  don’t  you  want  to  marry  her?”  asked  Alfonso,  already  
despairing  of  being  able  to  conquer
such logic and hoping to bring the matter on to another plane.

“For  lack  of  this!”  replied  Gralli,  raising  his  right  hand  and  
rubbing  his  thumb  and  forefinger  as  if
counting money.

“You  can’t  lack  it  altogether!”  replied  Alfonso.  It  occurred  to  him  
that  by  sacrificing  a  small  sum  of
money for Lucia’s happiness he would show Signora Lanucci that he was not 
wholly indifferent to Lucia’s
fate.

At his first offer of a thousand lire, Gralli looked at him in surprise, but 
refused.
“I can’t see what it’s to do with you!”

Alfonso flushed scarlet because he realized what Gralli’s first suspicion must 
be, and explained that he
had  been  a  close  friend  of  the  family  for  years  and  wanted  to  do  
his  best  to  save  it  from  disaster.  So,
though   dealing   with   an   inferior,   he   became   embarrassed   and   
found   no   other   way   out   of   this
embarrassment than to double and triple his offer, as if not wanting to leave 
Gralli time to reflect.

Gralli soon changed his tune, hesitated, was about to give  way. Alfonso 
noticed it. Then Gralli refused
again.

“I’m not marrying her, I can’t marry her. I’ve a mother to think of and can’t 
take on such an expense.”

With repugnance Alfonso went back to reasoning. He had not yet understood the 
real reason for Gralli’s
hesitation  and  thought  he  could  convince  him  in  the  end.  He  said  
that  it  would  take  very  little  extra  to
keep Lucia, because food for two was nearly the same as for three and the dowry 
he was offering would
cover most of their expenses.

But this was a working-man who knew his sums. As Alfonso had said that the 
expense of keeping Lucia
was insignificant Gralli now demonstrated that the interest from the sum 
offered was not enough to cover
more than a fifth of this expense.

“So you want to live on interest now, do you?” exclaimed Alfonso indignantly.

Gralli was making an act of reparation dependent on selfish calculation, and 
that stirred him.

“No, I’m not thinking of myself, but of whoever wants to live on me,” replied 
Gralli brutally. He stopped
the argument. “If Lucia had a dowry of seven thousand lire I’d marry her.”

Alfonso tried to reduce this demand, having already decided to give way if the 
other resisted, and Gralli
was immovable.

“You’ll get your seven thousand lire,” said Alfonso, getting to his feet.
Gralli went as far as the Lanuccis’ door with him.

“Your word’s enough, just your word before a notary.” Having so ably looked 
after his own interests he
now  wanted  to  cut  a  good  figure  as  well.  He  said  that  Alfonso’s  
money  would  be  far  from  enough  for
Lucia’s  needs,  but  he  was  also  thinking  both  of  his  affection  for  
her  and  of  his  feelings  as  a  father,
aroused, so he assured Alfonso, the moment he knew he was to become a father.

“Yes,” he added seriously. “I’m convinced it’s much better for the child to be 
born legitimate.”

These amiable remarks from Gralli were so incompatible with his bearing till 
then that Alfonso thought
the other was quoting verbatim  from someone else. But he was pleased that 
Gralli was making an effort
to seem disinterestedly in love, since this took away his worry about Gralli 
suspecting an impure motive
for his own interest in the Lanuccis.

Gralli seemed to guess what his benefactor was expecting of him. He said, 
looking moved:
“You love Lucia’s parents as if you were their own son.”

He could not have expressed himself more delicately. They agreed that next day 
Gralli would go to old
Lanucci and ask for his daughter’s hand.

Signora Lanucci ran to meet him on the stairs.
“So everythings settled, is it?”

“Who told you that?”

“Gustavo!  He  was  in  such  a  state,  though,  that  I  doubted  if  he  was 
 telling  the  truth!  Dear  son,  I
wronged him!”

She  blew  kisses  in  the  air  and  leaped  up  the  stairs  like  a  little  
girl.  She  left  him  alone  without  saying


good  night,  and  while  on  his  way  to  bed  Alfonso  heard  her  waking  
her  husband  to  give  him  the  good
news. Then he heard her again in Lucia’s room and the sound of celebratory 
kisses. The girl was sobbing
from joy.

Finally everyone in the house was asleep except himself. He had done well not 
to throw his charity into
Signora Lanucci’s face, for it would have lessened her joy. She would know it 
sooner or later. He did not
want to be an anonymous benefactor nor seem to be seeking gratitude either. He 
went to sleep, happy at
that expected gratitude. It was some days before he realized what a great 
sacrifice he had made and how
much he had worsened his situation by that huge decrease of his capital.

The  next  day,  after  wandering  a  long  time  round  the  streets,  he  
reached  home  very  late  and  missed
Gralli, who must have been there some hours. He did not learn what had been 
talked of because no one
bothered to tell him, but it was obvious from their attitude that they had no 
idea it was he who had saved
Lucia.

Soon after his arrival the girl left the house, giving him only a restrained 
bow. Signora Lanucci said it
had  all  been  a  misunderstanding,  their  ideas  about  Lucia.  This  remark 
 which  excluded  him  from  their
confidence  was  said  coldly  on  purpose  because  Signora  Lanucci  was  
clever  enough  to  realize  he  would
not believe her; its only purpose must therefore be to hurt him. When alone 
with Gustavo he found to his
great surprise that the brother also believed Lucia’s salvation to be due to 
his own action. He boasted of
it.

“A reasonable word at the right time, eh!”

Alfonso left him with that opinion for the moment.

Not  even  the  next  day  did  anyone  breathe  a  word  about  Alfonso’s  
generosity,  and  he  felt  no  need  to
mention  it.  He  did  not  want  to  admit  it,  but  he  was  being  silent  
because  he  enjoyed  increasing  his  own
generosity; every curt word from the Lanuccis gave him a little stab of 
satisfaction because on realizing
how  unjustly  they  had  treated  him  their  gratitude  would  be  all  the  
greater.  He  felt  like  laughing  when
Lucia,  who  hated  him  because  she  had  offered  him  her  love  twice,  
turned  her  back  on  him  to  show  her
contempt, which was, however, no greater than old Signora Lanucci’s now that 
she had given up all hope
of  his  marrying  Lucia.  He  smiled  as  he  confessed  to  himself  that  he 
 liked  the  idea  of  their  gratitude  so
much  that  he  was  even  acting  a  part  in  order  to  increase  it.  His  
actions,  he  still  kept  on  finding,
contradicted  his  theories.  That  intense  desire  to  be  thanked  and  
admired  was  quite  unlike  genuine
renunciation. He was still vain.

The next day at supper old Lanucci waited gravely for Alfonso to be seated; 
then he told them dryly that
for reasons which he had been told but had forgotten, Gralli would not be 
coming that day. After which he
turned to Alfonso and went on:

“I did not know he had been promised seven thousand lire of dowry. He asked me 
about it, and I said I
knew nothing. Is it true you want to give him that?”

“Yes,” replied Alfonso. “It’s no use to me.”

There  was  a  chorus  of  thanks,  not  all  equally  lively.  Signora  
Lanucci  could  not  have  enjoyed  passing
suddenly  from  hatred  to  gratitude.  She  held  her  hand  out  to  Alfonso  
and,  trying  to  make  up  in  the  firm
brevity of her thanks what they lacked in intensity, said:

“My thanks to you!” She smiled at her daughter whose eyes were full of tears 
and said to her: “Why are
you crying? Silly girl! At least it means you’ll have some money!”

Lucia thanked him amid sobs. The thought of Gralli returning to her from love 
alone had flattered her,
and the pain of learning the contrary was greater than her gratitude. She cried 
and cried then withdrew
to her room, after saying good night to Alfonso with thanks which sounded 
fervent because of repetition.

“What  I  don’t  understand,”  said  Alfonso,  talking  to  avoid  the  
embarrassment  he  found  those  thanks
gave him: “What I don’t understand is the connection all this has with Gralli’s 
absence.”

Lanucci  said  that  he  thought  Gralli  had  said  something  to  excuse  
himself  but  he  could  not  remember
what.

That evening, as he left the office, Alfonso easily guessed the excuse Gralli 
had given Lanucci and been
silent about. On the Corso he was stopped by Gralli, who must have been waiting 
for him on purpose but
did  not  want  to  seem  so.  He  was  very  friendly,  but  obviously  his  
thoughts  were  elsewhere,  and  he  was
looking for a way of saying something difficult.

“How are you?”

Apart from what was so close to Gralli’s heart they had nothing to talk about. 
After giving the question
a  dry  answer  and  waiting  unsuccessfully  for  the  other  to  begin  
explaining  why  he  was  waiting  for  him,
Alfonso, impatient and irritated at having to walk the Corso in his company, 
asked what he wanted; Gralli
had  no  chance  to  prepare  his  little  speech  as  he’d  have  liked:  he  
asked  him  to  follow  him  out  of  the
crowds, and they went towards a fountain. The sirocco  had made  the  weather  
milder, and  warm  air  had
brought many people out of doors.

“I  spoke  to  old  Lanucci  today,  and  he  told  me  he  knew  nothing  
about  the  promised  dowry  …”  he  was
talking  slowly  to  give  the  other  time  to  get  used  to  his  distrust,  
but  in  those  few  words  he  had  already
expressed everything.

“Why  should  old  Lanucci  know  about  it?  I’ve  promised  it  and  that’s  
enough!”  cried  Alfonso,  quite
capable in his fury of letting Gralli believe he had wanted the Lanuccis to 
know nothing of his gift.

“I never had any doubts!” cried Gralli.

That must be true because Alfonso knew that Gralli had acted on the promise 
alone. He told Alfonso in
a tone of sincerity that his mother had insisted he must not marry unless he 
had the dowry in hand first.

Alfonso  began  laughing  contemptuously,  pretending  not  to  believe  what  
he  had  already  realized  was


true.

“So you think me a liar, do you? Well, I utterly refuse to hand you the money 
because I distrust you with
better reason than you could have to distrust me.”

Gralli looked desperate.

“If that’s how things are, what shall we do? Mother sticks to what she says and 
declares she won’t hear
of it before seeng the money! She won’t even accept your promise before a 
notary.”

This, which seemed an insurmountable obstacle to Gralli, could have been used 
by Alfonso as an excuse
to get out of his pledge. He had no wish to do so, and as he suggested a 
possible arrangement he felt his
chest swell at his own generosity. He proposed that they should go before a 
notary together the next day
and deposit the money with a declaration that it was to be handed over to 
Gralli only on the actual day of
his marriage to Lucia.

Gralli  gratefully  accepted  this  suggestion,  which  he  approved,  and  he  
thought  his  mother  would
approve  too.  Urged  by  Alfonso,  who  warned  him  that  they  were  worried 
 about  his  absence,  he  went
straight  to  the  Lanuccis.  Alfonso  recommended  him  to  say  nothing  of  
what  had  happened  because  it
would not help him with Lucia. Now that he knew there was no danger of the 
beneficiaries  remaining  in
ignorance of his sacrifice he felt he could act as if he had wanted to hide it.

Gralli the egotist, as Alfonso called him, was more frank than he was himself.

“I don’t care what Lucia thinks,” he said simply, “the others, if they’re not 
stupid, must realize I could
do nothing else. Without this dowry I just couldn’t marry her.” Anyway, he was 
going to the Lanuccis with
no fears, because the moment they saw him enter, their faces would clear, 
whatever they had against him.

“They’re so fond of me,” he said slyly.

But,  they  could  not  have  been  very  pleasant  to  him  that  evening,  
for  when  Alfonso  arrived,  he  found
Gralli  already  gone  and  the  whole  family  in  bed,  a  sign  of  great  
ill-humour.  Alfonso  felt  a  pang  of
disappointment  that  not  even  on  the  very  day  when  the  Lanuccis  heard 
 of  his  generosity  had  they  felt
grateful enough to wait up for him.

Lucia did, but in her own room, so she did not realize he was home. Just as he 
was leaving the living-
room on his way to bed the girl appeared at her door.

“May I?” she asked with a shyness unusual for her, and with a hint of a smile. 
“I’ve come to thank you.
Mother knows I’ve come; I must thank you in her name too in fact.”

She broke off and burst into tears. They seemed the continuation of tears 
suppressed a short while ago,
for they came pouring out.

Touched  and  embarrassed,  he  asked  her  to  calm  herself.  He  felt  an  
unpleasant  sensation,  almost  a
remorse at suffocating this poor family under a weight of gratitude. He told 
her that he had done nothing
but his duty. She went on sobbing, holding the handkerchief to her mouth and 
standing on the threshold
without leaning against the door.

“There’s nothing to thank me for or cry about. You’ll be happy now, that’s all.”
At this Lucia at once began talking.

“Happy? Never!” Then, interrupted from time to time by tears, she told how that 
same evening she had
asked Gralli to renounce the dowry, and he had refused. “Now I don’t love him 
any more,” and she began
crying  again.  She  was  a  child  really,  and  Alfonso  felt  more  revolted 
 than  ever  at  the  thought  of  Gralli’s
betrayal. “I’ve never really loved him. They told me I had to marry him, and I 
realized it too, but I’d never
imagined he’d be so horrid.”

Alfonso  tried  to  convince  her  that  Gralli  was  better  than  she  
thought  and  that  he  wanted  the  money
only so as to enjoy it with her. He could find no other arguments. And he 
realized he was making no real
effort to turn away a new and gentle affection for himself born in the girl’s 
heart and see it went to Gralli.

She tried to kiss his hand, and he did not let her, but drew her to him and 
kissed her on the forehead,
while the girl trembled in his arms. Slowly, with dignity, talking to her and 
telling her not to cry he led her
back into the living-room and finally to the door of her room.

Thinking over his own behaviour with Gralli, whose admiration he had not 
hesitated to arouse, and with
Lucia, whose gratitude he had managed to increase, Alfonso repeated to himself 
the question:

“Is this how a philosopher should behave?”

Once again he had to smile at himself for being so pleased at old Lanucci’s 
gratitude. The latter would
bow before him as to a superior being, listen with reverent attention whenever 
he spoke.

“Never have I seen such a thing in all my life!” he exclaimed when he was 
present at the handing over
of the money to the notary.

“You’re very kind!” Gustavo said to him. “How much money have you got left 
now?”

On hearing Alfonso’s reply he refused to believe it was true. And Alfonso was 
weak enough to spend a
long time persuading him.


XX

HE YEARLY  balance sheet had been made up for a fortnight, and still no one at 
the bank knew anything
about the bonuses annually distributed among employees on that occasion.

“D’you  think  they  mean  to  abolish  them?”  asked  Ballina,  worried.  The  
sum  he  hoped  for  was  already
earmarked  to  pay  debts  and,  as  he  said,  it  would  mean  bankruptcy  
for  him  if  nothing  was  forthcoming.
His remarks now became more biting than ever. “If it’s his fault, that old 
redskin ought to be strung up.”
‘Old redskin’ meant Maller.

Alchieri  acted  the  buffoon,  though  also  worried  at  the  long  delay  in 
 getting  money  on  which  he  was
relying; he jeered at Ballina and urged him on. He arranged with Santo to call 
each clerk except Ballina
one by one and make them all pretend that they had received a hundred or two or 
three hundred francs a
head. Ballina went wild, saying he was going to complain to Maller, and listing 
his services to the bank,
the hours in which he had worked overtime. To Alfonso, who had agreed to 
pretend he had received three
hundred  francs,  he  said:  “Of  course  you’re  favoured,  we  all  know  
that,  you  go  to  Signorina  Maller  and
give her lessons! It’s a scandal, this bank is!”

Hurriedly Alfonso revealed the joke, red in the face and thoroughly regretting 
he had provoked Ballina.

One Sunday Santo came to call Bravicci in Maller’s name. Bravicci warned 
Ballina before going, but the
latter went on calmly writing.

“My dear fellow, you can pull my leg once but not twice!” When Bravicci 
returned and showed him two
notes of a hundred francs each, Ballina had doubts, and when he too was called 
he went off to Maller with
a spring in his step. “If you’re deceiving me, it’ll be all the worst for you.” 
He was almost content when he
came out. “It’s enough, I can’t complain. I’m fated never to be quite free of 
debt.”

Starringer and Alchieri were the most pleased; both received more than they had 
hoped.

Miceni came in for mutual congratulations and to tell what his luck was. He was 
not discontented; he
had been praised but told that not so much responsibility was expected of him 
as he was in the counting
house, and so he was not to expect a lot from his superiors.

“I’m still looking out for another job, and one of these days I hope to cut and 
run.”

The only one not yet called was Alfonso; Santo, who was acting as messenger 
that day, eventually came
up to him instead of shouting his name out and whispered a few words which 
Alfonso did not quite catch
but supposed to be the call to see Maller.

From the moment when Bravicci was called Alfonso had been in a great state of 
agitation. Now after all
this time he was about to speak to Maller again; he was disturbed by the idea 
that Maller might have to
exercise  self-control  to  treat  him  in  calm  office  tones.  Alfonso  had  
now  persuaded  himself  that  he  could
hope  for  an  increase  of  pay  and  a  big  bonus;  a  few  days  before  he 
 had  actually  been  in  fear  of
overpayment  as  a  possible  bribe  for  silence.  Now  he  needed  money  he  
would  try  and  enjoy  what  was
given him, remembering that he had done work enough to deserve any bonus.

Already  discontented,  he  was  about  to  enter  Maller’s  room  when  Santo  
stopped  him  with  an  ironic
smile.

“Not in there! It’s Signor Cellani calling you!”

Santo  thought  he  had  not  been  called  for  the  bonus.  Alfonso  went  
purple  in  the  face;  this  was  even
worse than he had expected. Even on that occasion Maller did not want to see 
him.

He went to Cellani, who was bent as usual over his desk and did not see him at 
once.

“Signor Maller was suddenly called out of the office and told me to give you 
this!” and with ill grace he
put  two  bank  notes  on  the  table.  Alfonso  took  them  glumly,  murmured  
scarcely  intelligible  thanks  and
went out.

In the passage he had another proof of the contempt with which he was being 
treated. Maller was in his
office. With his ginger hair poking out from his room he was shouting, calling 
for Santo. He was in such a
rage  that  he  did  not  see  Alfonso.  Alfonso  in  his  own  first  flush  
of  anger  could  not  restrain  himself;  he
wanted to be seen. Without bowing or greeting Maller he called to him:

“I’ll get Santo if you like.”

Maller looked at him with some surprise. “All right!” he said brusquely and 
shut the door in his face.

Alfonso  returned  to  his  room  without  bothering  to  look  for  Santo.  He 
 was  asked  what  money  he  had
received and what Maller had said to him, and replied that they had been the 
usual words and showed the
two bank notes. All thought the money little. Alfonso reminded Ballina of his 
words a few days ago.

“Do you think I’m favoured now?”

He left with a firm tread, after hesitating an instant in front of Sanneo’s 
door. The custom was to go to
the   department   head   and   thank   him   for   the   bonus.   But   no,   
Sanneo   did   not   deserve   that.   His
recommendations must have been very weak if that was all the result they had.

On reaching the open air he remembered how when he was at school his parents 
came to town at the
end of the scholastic year and accompanied him to school to fetch his 
certificate. They would wait for him
in  the  public  gardens  opposite  the  school,  and  he  would  hurry  
triumphantly  over  to  receive  his  father’s
praises  and  his  mother’s  warm  embrace  when  he  knew  he  had  deserved  
them.  One  year  his  certificate
was  spoiled  by  a  bad  report.  Alfonso  had  hesitated  a  long  time  
before  entering  the  garden,  then  finally
made  up  his  mind,  went  up  to  his  father  and  handed  over  the  
certificate  without  saying  a  word,  not
answering  Signora  Carolina’s  affectionate  words  of  encouragement.  His  
father  responded  to  the  bad
report  very  seriously,  and  when  his  wife  excused  their  son,  doubted  
if  it  was  deserved  and  suggested  it


might be attributed to the antipathy of some teacher, he replied that he did 
not believe it and that doing
one’s duty banishes all evil. How wrong his father was! Even at that young age 
Alfonso already knew from
experience that none of his efforts could lessen a hatred roused through no 
fault of his own.

At  that  very  moment  he  met  Annetta  for  the  first  time.  Her  figure  
looked  majestic  in  a  heavy  black
cloak;  beside  her  trotted  Francesca,  insignificant  as  a  servant.  It  
seemed  impossible  that  he  had  ever
possessed  such  a  splendid  creature.  That  must  be  a  dream.  No  trace  
of  his  kisses  remained  on  that
beautiful pure white face. How calm and regal she was, as if she had never 
erred with him and not been
about to deceive and dishonour another man.

He  greeted  her  humbly,  feeling  he  looked  at  her  as  if  asking  
pardon.  Francesca  did  not  answer  his
greeting, as if she had not seen him; Annetta nodded after a slight hesitation, 
as if just remembering she
had known him.

Turning round to look he saw her talking to Francesca; her face seemed very 
pale. He tried to assure
himself  about  this  and  hoped  he  had  not  been  deceived;  it  would  
have  been  a  comfort  if  she  were
flustered.  He  followed  her  slowly  but  could  no  longer  see  her  face  
as  he  did  not  dare  accelerate.  The
distance  between  them  increased,  and  when  Annetta  vanished  into  the  
milling  midday  crowd  on  the
Corso, he felt more alone and unhappy than ever. How far away from her he was. 
There was no way open
for his return; he would stay poor and abandoned when he could have been rich 
and beloved. Perhaps it
was his own fault.

That evening on entering the living-room he heard himself called from Lucia’s 
room.

“Mother forgot,” said the girl in a voice which seemed to be trembling with 
emotion, “do please close
my door.”

Her  flurried  tone  made  him  think  that  door  had  been  left  open  on  
purpose.  He  glanced  into  the  little
room and saw a sheet gleaming in a ray of light from the window. He had to 
struggle with himself not to
enter. Though not desiring Lucia, it seemed to him that a kiss from her might 
cancel the effect of Maller’s
behaviour; why spend the night alone in such a state of agitation?

Actually  he  needed  no  kiss  to  calm  himself,  a  small  effort  at  
self-domination  was  enough.  “One  more
renunciation.” he said to himself with a smile, and the word recalled to his 
mind the state he had been in
a few days before. It had taken so little to get him out of it. Maller had now 
shown openly the antipathy of
which he had given definite signs before; nothing else new had happened.

He went to bed quite surprised to find he could achieve quiet by cold 
reasoning, slept soundly and had
a  fantastic  dream  of  a  kind  he  had  not  had  since  childhood,  about  
riding  through  the  air  on  a  wooden
board, walking dry-shod over water and lording it over a great city. But next 
day something happened for
which no reasoning could console him, a disaster that showed he really was 
being persecuted.

Early that morning he went as usual to Sanneo to ask for instructions about 
letters which had arrived
the day before. Sanneo greeted him with an embarrassed smile, holding the 
bundle of letters in front of
him with a staring look which was obviously to gain time to think. Then he 
politely asked Alfonso, before
receiving instructions, to go and see Cellani, who wanted to talk to him.

“D’you  know  what  he  wants  to  say?”  asked  Alfonso,  to  prepare  himself 
 for  Cellani’s  communication
which he already guessed to be very important.

“I don’t know,” replied Sanneo, “but they seem to have gone off their heads in 
there.”

But  he  obviously  knew  quite  well  what  it  was,  for  in  the  offhand  
way  he  dealt  with  everything  not
strictly business he asked Alfonso to hand over the bundle of letters in his 
hand to Bravicci. He was polite
but obviously wanted to waste no time. So Alfonso expected the worst. 
Dismissal.

Cellani was not in his office but hurried in as soon as he heard Alfonso enter. 
He looked very serious,
but as he was at last speaking in complete sentences—Alfonso found him politer 
than usual.

“I have something to tell you which you may be glad to hear.” He obviously 
doubted this, and in spite of
his  serious  air  the  phrase  sounded  ironical.  “In  the  counting  house  
they  need  an  expert  clerk  for  the
central desk and Signor Maller has decided this clerk is to be you.”

It  was  an  order  not  a  suggestion,  though  transfers  to  the  counting  
house  were  usually  made  by
agreement with the particular clerk, as a suggestion.

“So I’m to leave the correspondence department, am I?” asked Alfonso to prolong 
the interview. He was
undecided  whether  to  protest,  to  react  against  what  he  realized  to  
be  a  punishment,  or  resign  himself
with  good  grace.  But  anger  won.  Was  Cellani  jeering  at  him  by  
trying  to  pass  off  such  a  humiliation  as
promotion? “What have I done to be kicked out of the correspondence department 
like this?”

Cellani  looked  at  him  in  surprise.  He  moved  towards  his  chair  with  
an  impatient  shrug,  incapable  of
more pretence.

“Ask Signor Maller; I know nothing about it myself.”

He puffed out his cheeks and began writing and signing nervously.
“All right,” said Alfonso resolutely, “I’ll go and ask Signor Maller.”

He  went  out.  But  already  in  that  brief  interval  he  had  calculated  
the  risk  of  going  to  Maller.  He  could
always  take  that  step  later,  after  time  for  reflection.  He  went  
straight  to  his  own  room  and  handed  the
letters  over  to  Bravicci  as  Sanneo  had  told  him.  Bravicci  said  he’d  
known  the  day  before  that  he  was  to
take  over  Alfonso’s  work.  Alfonso,  who  had  been  told  nothing,  
brusquely  handed  over  his  other  pending
letters. For a moment he hated the other man.

“So  you’re  being  sent  to  the  counting  house,  are  you?”  asked  
Ballina,  seeing  Alfonso  leave  his  room
with overcoat, hat and a bundle of papers. “You’re the second one. Sanneo is 
gradually shoving the lot of
us in there.”

Alfonso  did  not  excuse  Sanneo;  in  fact  Ballina’s  observation  suggested 
 a  reply  to  give  all  those  who


asked him the reason for his transfer.

In his new office he found his old colleague Miceni, who greeted him joyfully 
and congratulated him on
having  finally  left  the  correspondence  department.  It  was  worth  the  
lower  pay,  he  asserted;  they  were
much better off in the counting house and, what was more, had the privilege of 
not seeing Sanneo.

Marlucci was less warm, but only because he was sorry that the room in which 
there had till then been
two of them would now have to fit three. It was not very big and not quite 
square because one corner, that
of the building itself, was rounded. Alfonso’s desk had not been set up and 
there was no gas-light.

Miceni explained to him what his work would be, so briefly that Alfonso 
understood little or nothing. He
was merely to look after the central desk, which Miceni had done with others 
till then.

“I never asked for an assistant,” said the latter, laughing because other 
people’s misfortunes always put
him in a good humour. “The only reason why they could have sent you here was 
because Sanneo wanted
to get rid of you.” He asked Alfonso what had caused the quarrel, but Alfonso 
felt incapable of making up
a story.

“Don’t let’s talk of it,” he said, the blood rushing to his face as if on the 
verge of a fit of rage.

He would soon adapt himself to this new situation too, he thought, and 
remembered how at one time he
had  even  wanted  to  move  to  this  section  for  its  cool  calm.  The  
clerks  called  it  ‘Siberia’  because  people
such  as  Miceni  were  sent  there  from  other  departments  for  punishment  
or  because  they  had  failed  at
other jobs; but advancement was possible in the counting house too, and in fact 
Cellani himself had been
head  of  it  before  becoming  deputy  manager.  In  that  quiet  area,  only  
reached  faintly  by  the  sound  of
business, he could work calmly and happily. His pay and the money he still had 
should be enough to live
on     for some time; there was no reason to precipitate decisions.

So he reasoned, though still agitated; a first day of long dull unsuccessful 
work was enough to unsettle
him. He had been shown how to draw up the day’s accounts and enter them in the 
master ledger, a long
but easy job of copying. But every night he was to add up the sums registered 
that day and balance the
debit against the credit columns. His first attempt did not work out and both 
Miceni and Marlucci, after
spending some  time  helping him  look for  errors, had  given up trying  to 
make  the  figures  tally and  gone
off. Before leaving, Miceni, sorry at wasting so much time, exclaimed:

“I wonder what mistakes you’ve managed to think up today!”

Alfonso  went  on  comparing  columns  for  some  time  longer,  but  did  not  
find  a  single  one  of  the  errors
which  must  be  there:  he  realized  the  work  had  got  on  top  of  him  
and  that  he  could  not  concentrate
enough to compare the two sets of figures properly. Then he remembered telling 
Cellani that he wanted
to      go  to  Maller  and  complain  of  the  injustice  done  him.  He  had  
not  renounced  this  project;  now  he  told
himself that he had not gone to Maller at once in order to avoid disturbing him 
in working hours, but had
never thought of taking the injustice done to him without a protest. The 
ineffable boredom of his day had
an effect. Rather than go home with his worries about unfinished work, he 
turned his thoughts to the idea
of  Maller  at  that  hour  calmly  congratulating  himself  on  disposing  of  
Alfonso;  this  made  the  blood  go  to
Alfonso’s  head,  and  he  entered  Maller’s  room  intending  to  show  his  
anger.  Once  inside  there  he  had  a
second’s panic; Maller might reply by telling him frankly the reasons for his 
hatred. But he overcame his
agitation.  If  that  happened,  which  seemed  very  unlikely,  he  would  
have  less  regard  for  Maller,  speak  of
Annetta  as  if  the  other  were  not  her  father,  insulting  him  and,  
after  taking  his  revenge,  leave  the  bank
with  his  head  held  high.  A  satisfaction  like  that  was  worth  
anything,  the  loss  of  his  job  was  nothing  in
comparison.

Maller was lounging on a sofa reading a newspaper which hid half his face. He 
raised his head to speak
to Alfonso and during the interview often let it drop back, either from 
weariness or to hide the expression
on his face. In spite of the warning which Alfonso had given to Cellani, Maller 
did not seem prepared for
the interview. His bearing was undecided, first cold and severe like a superior 
who considers he is being
good to reply at all, then restless and changeable.

“Signor  Cellani  told  me  that  I  was  transferred  from  the  
correspondence  department  to  the  counting
house by your order,” began Alfonso, stuttering, “I’d like to know if that’s to 
punish me for some failure.”

“No”   exclaimed   Maller.   “We   needed   a   clerk   in   the   counting   
house   and   could   spare   one   in   the
correspondence department. That was all.”

He  bent  his  head  down  behind  the  newspaper  for  the  first  time,  
obviously  thinking  the  interview  was
over.

Maller’s  coldness  made  Alfonso  calm;  its  tone  was  very  far  from  the  
frank  one  he  had  feared.  The
matter was represented as being purely office routine. In a cool-headed moment 
he realized that he must
not behave in a way that would force Maller to dismiss him, yet possibly say 
all he had in his heart. But he
was now in battling mood, conscious of being so and more resolved to fight than 
he had ever been in his
life.

He had worked hard in the correspondence department, he said, and was sorry to 
lose through no fault
of  his  own  a  place  won  with  so  much  effort.  In  the  correspondence  
department  he  knew  he  could  be
useful to the bank and expect quick advancement, while in the counting house he 
would just become like
other employees.

“It’s  for  the  moment,”  said  Maller,  with  a  look  of  surprise  at  
finding  him  so  bold,  and  also  of  curiosity
about what was in the back of Alfonso’s mind.

“For ever!” insisted Alfonso.

The resolute phrase gave him back the calm nearly expunged by Maller’s glance. 
In a voice no longer
uncertain he said that he was not a person who could live among figures alone; 
his brain needed to use
words and sentences because it was used to studies which Signor Maller knew 
something about. He tried


to smile because this last observation was intended as a joke.

Maller’s  face  went  the  colour  of  his  mottled  hair;  that  must  be  his 
 form  of  pallor.  The  smile  froze  on
Alfonso’s lips; on that face there was no trace of good humour. What had 
alarmed Maller, he realized, was
his  allusion  to  studies  which  his  chief  could  have  known  nothing  
about  if  they  had  not  been  connected
with Annetta.

“Well, what d’you want?”

Alfonso  had  looked  so  fierce  that  Maller  had  gone  calm;  then  as  
soon  as  the  other  went  calm,  he
attacked in his turn.

The question annoyed Alfonso: was this a flat refusal?

“What do I want?” he said angrily. “I demand to be put back in the 
correspondence department. I need
a chance of promotion,” and he gave a candid account of his financial 
difficulties.

“But people get on in the counting house too,” said Maller. He seemed very 
impatient.

Alfonso, firmly intending to put up an energetic defence and to give a quick 
reply to every remark, was
now  in  a  state  of  great  agitation  due  to  the  intense  effort  
required  to  be  always  on  the  alert.  So  he  was
more and more at the mercy of his first impressions. Usually he was hesitant 
and silent when faced by the
unexpected,  abandoning  previous  plans  and  eventually  regretting  his  own 
 lack  of  resolve.  This  time  his
regret  was quite different. Maller was being brusque, and he wanted to be too.

He  repeated  that  his  transfer  to  the  counting  house  must  be  a  
punishment;  the  clerks  called  the
counting house the ‘Siberia’ of the bank.

“I don’t see why you’re doing me this wrong.”

If Maller lost patience and gave a frank explanation, then the battle was lost; 
otherwise this way it was
won.

Maller  dryly  observed  that  he  was  not  used  to  reversing  his  
decisions  and  would  be  glad  if  Alfonso
accepted  them,  otherwise  …  and  he  completed  the  phrase  with  a  
gesture  which  clearly  meant  that  he
would be consoled even if Alfonso left the bank.

“All  right!”  shouted  Alfonso,  “I’ll  leave.”  He  felt  strengthened  at  
the  thought  that  the  worst  that  could
happen to him was to be left jobless. He went on more calmly, but with a wish 
to hurt and offend, “I can’t
stay in a job where I’m persecuted with no reason … or no reason I can see.”

This last addition gave him relief; he had had his say. For an instant he was 
undecided still, unwilling to
leave before he was certain of having said his all, then he gave a bow and 
moved towards the door.

At  his  last  remark  Maller  had  made  a  slight  movement  which  did  not  
escape  Alfonso,  then  raised  his
head from the newspaper.

“Don’t  take  a  serious  decision  like  that  on  the  spot,”  he  said  in  
a  gentle  voice,  almost  begging,  which
surprised  Alfonso,  because  its  tone  was  quite  different  from  that  of  
his  replies  till  then.  “I’ll  see  if  I  can
get you back to the correspondence department one day.”

It was obvious. The great man was worried.

For a moment, quite dazzled by the unexpected victory, Alfonso did not find 
this result enough.
“Till then am I to go on working in the counting house?”

That day’s boredom was too recent for him not to raise this too.

“I’ll see you’re helped with your work there,” said Maller, giving way at once.
Alfonso left without any thanks after a slight bow.

This  interview  left  him  in  a  ghastly  state  of  agitation.  Once  
outside  Maller’s  room  he  was  dissatisfied,
felt  that  the  victory  obtained  was  not  the  desired  one  because  he  
had  not  succeeded  in  destroying  the
management’s  disdain  for  him.  He  was  keeping  his  job—that  was  about  
all.  The  honest  Cellani  would
continue to treat him coldly and contemptuously. Oh if he could speak out to 
him, tell him how much his
affair with Annetta was due to her flirtatiousness which had aroused in him an 
emotion maybe ignoble or
impure  but  irresistible.  Then  he  would  no  longer  be  considered  by  
Cellani  merely  a  person  who  had
insinuated himself into the Maller home in order to grab a dowry by dishonest 
wiles.

Every  detail  of  that  interview  worried  him  as  he  went  off,  and  he  
tried  in  vain  to  think  of  a  word  in  it
which  he  could  remember  with  any  pleasure.  All  Maller’s  words  had  
been  stamped  with  antipathy  or
offhandedness when they did not betray fear; and he himself had made the 
mistake of aiming each word
of  his  own  at  keeping  his  position  and  improving  it,  none  at  making 
 Maller  friendlier.  What  put  him  in
despair, in fact, was that he had won the battle only by alluding to recondite 
reasons for his ill-treatment
in the bank. Had he made a threat which alarmed Maller?

Then  he  must  be  thought  a  blackmailer!  That  was  why  he  was  feared.  
He  did  not  want  to  let  such  an
accusal stand. No voice would be raised in his defence if he did not act. 
Maller knew too little not to be
suspicious  of  him,  and  Annetta’s  memory  of  him  must  have  been  
twisted  by  hatred  into  that  of  a  mere
adventurer.

He  would  ask  for  another  interview  with  Maller  the  next  day,  hand  
in  his  resignation  and  tell  him
frankly his reasons for the  action. He  did not want to keep even for a day 
what he was allowed only for
fear of vengeance. “You hate me,” he would say to him, “You’re the boss, why 
keep me on? It’s an insult
not to dismiss me.”

This idea should bring him some calm, he felt. He went home and flung himself 
on his bed half-dressed,
still  feeling  a  need  to  find  relief  in  dreams.  He  had  made  up  his  
mind.  He  would  be  without  a  job;  what
would he do with his life? He could not live by studies even if they were much 
better than his were; and it
would be very difficult to find another job. Which of all his contacts in town 
would be of use to him, except
those made at the Mallers, and on one of those, the most important, he could 
not count. He saw himself
abandoned, poor, starving maybe, and suffering from a hunger he knew too well 
that he could not endure;


eventually  he  would  even  hold  out  a  hand  to  the  Mallers  for  their  
charity  or  perhaps  reach  the  point  of
threatening them to make them help him. In his long soliloquy tears often came 
to his eyes. He must try
to keep his job at the Maller bank as long as he could.

Then he thought of one possible way of giving necessary explanations without 
losing his job; by giving
them to Annetta herself. He knew her to be vain and selfish, but not heartless; 
she had often forgiven him
out  of  compassion,  that  compassion  which  made  her  forget  her  fear  of 
 compromising  herself.  He  would
turn  to  her.  After  all  he  was  asking  nothing  but  to  be  left  in  
peace,  and  he  was  asking  it  of  those  who
should have even greater interest than he had himself in silence being kept; 
surely Annetta would grant
his request?

His first idea had been to wait for a chance to talk to Annetta, maybe to stop 
her on the street; then he
felt he could not bear to live in such a state of agitation and longed to get 
rid of it at once. Next day he
would write to Annetta and ask her to grant him an interview.

Eventually he did it there and then; the activity would help restore his calm, 
he thought. He jumped out
of bed and lit the lamp. It was a long time since he had written at that table; 
the rusty nib resisted, the ink
refused to flow and had to be diluted.

He began with an opening which seemed dignified and humble ‘Illustrissima 
Signorina,’ then asked for
the interview in a few words, saying that he had something to tell her of great 
importance for himself and
he thought for her too. If she granted this interview, as he did not doubt she 
would, he asked her to be on
the mole, closest to the Via dei Forni between eight and nine o’clock next 
evening. Then he added a touch
of ingenuous regret: ‘I no longer know how to treat you, Annetta, now that you 
may hate me,’ and one of
equally ingenuous irony: ‘I’m signing with both Christian name and surname as 
you may not recognize my
Christian name alone.’

He did not sleep, but the depression which often brought tears to his eyes 
stopped. Now his agitation
was of quite another kind, like an excited lover’s, and he traced this back to 
those two gentler phrases he
had addressed to Annetta. How pleasantly he was lulled by the thought that he 
would see her again the
next day. There, once again, at the thought of that face which had once blushed 
and paled for love of him,
he  had forgotten  the  hostile  faces surrounding  him. For  love  of  him,  
not of  Macario! He  knew that  from
Macario himself, who had denied that passion could ever throw a shadow over her 
face.

Now  his  purpose  in  asking  for  that  interview  no  longer  mattered;  his 
 main  wish  was  to  reestablish
himself  in  her  eyes,  to  make  her  feel  he  was  not  the  adventurer  
that  she  supposed.  Not  that  this  would
mean  the  end  of  her  projected  match  with  Macario;  but  affectionate  
gratitude  and  friendship  for  him
remaining in the heart of the woman he had loved would be enough.

He began imagining what he would say to her. He would not apologize for 
seducing her, that would be
an error  in  tactics;  he  had  done  it  in  passion  and could  not  regret  
an  action which  had  brought  him  the
greatest  happiness  of  his  life.  He  knew  from  his  reading  that  women  
always  forgive  an  homage  to  their
beauty in any even criminal form. He would waste few words about himself, just 
assure her that he would
die rather than say a word about the secret uniting them. Maybe she would be 
able to guess that from his
bearing  without  his  lowering  himself  to  saying  so.  Though  he  would  
have  liked  just  to  tell  her  he  loved
her, he would not say a word about love to her. In his misery now he no longer 
despised that love. Even
the  thought  of  it  had  comforted  him  in  his  gloom.  To  reveal  the  
slightest  hint  of  it  to  Annetta  would  be
dangerous because a man in love cannot be trusted, however honest and 
benevolent he may appear; so he
must   be very careful to hide this new affection of his. He must appear as a 
lover with no rancour at being
abandoned, one whose love has turned into sweet fraternal friendship. He would 
ask her affectionately if
she         was  happy  and  make  a  great  show  of  joy  if,  as  she  
probably  would,  she  assured  him  that  she  loved
Macario. On the other hand, she might possibly confess that she was not happy 
and confide in him freely.
If     that  happened  there  would  be  no  more  difficulties  for  him,  and 
 he  would  not  need  to  expend  much
thought on what attitude to take up.

Santo willingly agreed to deliver the letter.

For the first time Alfonso was able to draw advantage from his observations on 
character. Assuming an
air of importance he asked mysteriously whether Signorina Annetta had told him 
she was expecting that
letter. Then he warned him that it was a matter of springing a surprise on one 
of the Maller family.

Santo,  delighted  to  be  in  on  a  secret  concerning  Signorina  Annetta,  
put  the  note  in  his  pocket.  He
promised to be very cautious and was offended at Alfonso telling him so often 
to keep the secret. Then he
went  further  and  complained  that  Alfonso  never  showed  his  face  at  
the  Mallers  any  more.  Was  he
offended with someone? He gave the impression that if Alfonso was, he would 
avenge him.

Alfonso replied boldly:

“I was there at the end of last month!”

Santo, who knew nothing of that, gave a gesture of surprise:

“Ah, really! But even so you don’t come as often as you did before.”

The  note  was  sent.  At  midday  Alfonso  delightedly  watched  Santo  leave  
the  bank.  Every  minute  that
brought him closer to the time of his interview with Annetta gave him joy. His 
only fear was that Maller
might  take  some  step  before  this  interview  took  place.  No.  If  he  
had  to  accept  any  improvements  in  his
position at the bank, he did not want them prompted by fear. Even rejecting his 
silly dreams of the night
before he still believed this interview would destroy all misunderstanding. At 
the worst he would succeed
in convincing Annetta that if they had loved each other and no longer did, this 
was no reason for mutual
hatred.

He could not put down a single figure in his ledger, or even try and spot the 
mistakes which had caused
so much trouble the day before. By evening his impatience was such that he left 
the office and wandered


around the bank in search of someone with whom to talk and pass the remaining 
hour of waiting.

He went to Ballina and asked for news of the correspondence department; it 
seemed years since he had
left  it.  Ballina  as  usual  was  having  his  supper  at  the  bank,  and  
that  evening  he  cooked  eggs  on  a  gas
stove, and ate them with bread and butter washed down by a glass of wine. He 
explained to Alfonso how
little that succulent supper cost; scarcely seventy centesimi.

Alfonso  envied  him.  Ballina  was  preoccupied,  he  saw,  by  his  own  
health,  and  was  very  successfully
coping  with  very  unfavourable  circumstances.  He  slept,  so  he  said,  
like  a  baby,  tired  out  after  copying
those endless names; his only worry was some Hungarian or Slav name with many 
consonants.

When  Ballina  left,  Alfonso  went  to  Starringer  to  waste  another  
half-hour  in  the  despatch  department,
which was humming with work. He ran into old Antonio who was in charge of 
taking letters to the post.
The  poor  old  man  was  walking  along  cursing  the  directors  who  signed  
letters  so  late.  This  was  the
despatch department’s usual complaint. Even Starringer trotted it out, and 
Alfonso pretended to listen to
him though not taking in a word in his impatience.

He  did  not  leave  the  bank  yet.  Next  he  brushed  his  trousers  and  
cleaned  his  shoes  carefully  with
Miceni’s equipment; that was at least something to do.

It was a little over a quarter to eight when he left the bank, and he began to 
run, fearing to arrive at the
rendezvous late. What would he do in that case? Such a delay might be without 
remedy.

The sirocco still persisted, but no rain had fallen during the whole day. Until 
nightfall the city had been
covered with a slight mist, but that had also gone and the sky was clear, 
strewn with stars, moonless. A
thin layer of slime covered the length of the paving stones.

At ten minutes past eight Alfonso had his first doubt whether Annetta would 
turn up. It was quite likely
she  wouldn’t.  Without  confessing  it  to  himself,  he  had  acted  until  
then  as  if  sure  she  loved  him  still;
otherwise  he  could  not  hope  that  a  girl  who  was  engaged  should  take 
 such  a  step.  He  realized  he  had
written  her  a  bad  letter.  He  should  have  merely  told  Annetta  he  
wanted  to  talk  to  her  and  awaited  an
indication of when and where from her. But it was too late to correct that now. 
He would wait until nine;
and    he leant against a parapet, patient and resigned.

He noticed a young man passing him for the second time and giving him a curious 
stare: he had already
seen  before  that  oblong  face,  with  its  fair  moustache  and  penetrating 
 look,  and  that  long  thin  body.  He
looked   after   him;   it   was   Federico   Maller,   he   recognized   him   
by   his   narrow   trousers.   Was   this   a
coincidence  or  had  Annetta  given  her  brother  a  message  for  him?  He  
had  never  liked  young  Maller  and
was     sorry  to  have  him  to  deal  with,  but  now  he  must  try  and  
facilitate  whatever  duty  the  brother  had
taken on from affection for his sister.

Feeling  Federico  draw  closer  he  turned  to  greet  him  but  got  a  push  
which  nearly  flung  him  to  the
ground.

“Apologize,  you  swine!”  young  Maller  yelled  at  him,  raising  a  hand  
which  in  the  darkness  Alfonso
thought was armed.

Did they want to kill him? He hurled himself on the thin figure, held the 
upraised threatening hand and
seized young Maller by the throat. The other flailed towards the sea in an 
effort to break free. Alfonso was
panting and using much more strength than was necessary.

“I’ll throw you in the sea!” he threatened, giving him a push, but not hard 
enough.

“What  manners  people  have  in  this  town!”  said  young  Maller  
disdainfully,  putting  a  hand  up  to
straighten his necktie.

“I thought you were trying to pick my pocket,” replied Alfonso indignantly.

He  accepted  Maller’s  visiting  card  and  proffered  his  own.  His  own  
seconds  would  call  on  Maller  at
twelve o’clock the next day, he promised. lt was a surprise to be behaving so 
correctly all at once.

So this was the appointment which Annetta had granted. She had made a quick 
decision, had an easy
means to hand, and sent off her brother to kill him. Annetta too hated him, 
which grieved him; she did not
think herself safe from him, and thought he must be suppressed so as not to 
have to fear him any more.
Oh, she did not know him. In all the time he had loved her she had not realized 
how open and honest was
his nature. That was the sad part, not that Federico would probably kill him.

He  walked  along  faster  and  faster  towards  home.  On  the  Corso  he  
stopped  for  an  instant,  thinking
Macario had passed. It was not him, but Alfonso wondered if it would be any 
satisfaction to take revenge
on  Macario  by  giving  him  a  full  description  of  his  affair  with  
Annetta.  No.  His  only  possible  satisfaction
would  be  to  convince  Annetta  that  she  was  mistaken  about  him.  He  
would  write  her  a  letter,  a  dying
man’s farewell.

Then he found himself sitting at his desk, pen in hand, but could not manage to 
put down a single word.
Never in his daydreamer’s life had he been so completely possessed by a dream. 
He dropped his pen and
put  his  head  in  his  hands,  longing  to  reflect  but  dreaming  
obsessively.  Annetta  wanted  him  dead!  He
longed for her to get her wish and then regret it. He imagined her reviving her 
love for him one day, and
her visiting his grave to scatter tears over it. Oh! How sweet and calm it 
would be in that cemetery which
he thought of as green and warmed by sun.

When he opened his eyes, he was surprised to find himself face to face with a 
sheet of writing paper.

He was to fight Federico Maller in an unequal duel, with his adversary having 
the advantages of both
hatred and capacity. What had he himself to hope for? Only one way was open to 
him of escaping a fight
in  which  he  would  play  a  wretched  and  ridiculous  part;  suicide.  
Suicide  would  give  him  back  Annetta’s
affection. Never had he loved her as he did at that moment. It was no longer a 
matter of self-interest or
the  senses.  The  further  he  saw  her  moving  away  from  him  the  more  
he  loved  her;  now  that  he  had
definitely  lost  all  hope  of  re-conquering  her  smile,  her  affectionate  
word,  life  seemed  colourless,  null.


Once he had vanished, Annetta would no longer feel disgust born of fear at the 
thought of him, and that
was  all  that  he  could  hope  for.  He  did  not  want  to  live  on  and  
appear  to  her  as  a  contemptible  enemy
whom  she  suspected  of  trying  to  harm  her  and  make  her  pay  a  high  
price  for  the  favours  she  had
accorded him.

Till then he had thought of suicide only through the prejudices of others. Now 
he accepted it not with
resignation  but  with  joy.  Liberation!  He  reminded  himself  that  until  
a  short  time  before  he  had  thought
differently.  He  tried  to  calm  himself,  to  see  if  that  feeling  of  
joy  were  not  a  mere  product  of  some  fever
possessing him. No. He was quite lucid. He assembled up in his mind all the 
arguments against suicide,
from the moral ones of preachers to those by modern philosophers. They made him 
smile. They were not
arguments but expressions of a wish, the wish to live.

He,  though,  felt  incapable  of  living.  Some  feeling  which  he  had  
often  tried  and  failed  to  understand
made  it  an  unbearable  agony  to him.  He  knew  neither  how to  love  nor  
how  to enjoy;  he  had  suffered  in
the  best  of  circumstances  more  than  did  others  in  the  most  painful  
ones.  He  was  leaving  life  without
regret.   It   was   the   one   way   to   become   superior   to   others’   
suspicions   and   hatreds.   That   was   the
renunciation  of  which  he  had  dreamed.  He  must  destroy  this  body  of  
his  which  knew  no  peace;  while  it
was        alive  it  would  continue  to  drag  him  into  the  struggle,  
because  that  was  what  it  was  there  for.  He
would not write to Annetta. Even the bother and possible danger of such a 
letter he would spare her.

N…… , 23 October 18..
Signor Luigi Mascotti,

In  reply  to  your  letter  of  the  21st  instant  we  would  inform  you  
that  the  reasons  for  which  our  clerk

Signor  Alfonso  Nitti  committed  suicide  are  quite  unknown.  He  was  
found  dead  in  his  room  on  the  16th
instant, at four in the morning, by Signor Gustavo Lanucci, who on returning 
home at that hour had his
suspicions aroused by a strong smell of gas diffused throughout the whole 
apartment. Signor Nitti left a
letter  addressed  to  Signora  Lanucci  in  which  he  declared  her  his  
heir.  Your  question  about  the  sum  of
money found with Signor Nitti should therefore be referred to the 
above-mentioned.

The funeral took place on 18th instant in the presence of colleagues and 
management.

We remain, yours faithfully,
Maller & Co


Also Available from Pushkin Press


PUSHKIN PRESS

Pushkin Press was founded in 1997. Having first rediscovered European classics 
of the twentieth century,
Pushkin now publishes novels, essays, memoirs, children’s books, and everything 
from timeless classics to
the urgent and contemporary. Pushkin Press books, like this one, represent 
exciting, high-quality writing
from  around  the  world.  Pushkin  publishes  widely  acclaimed,  brilliant  
authors  such  as  Stefan  Zweig,
Antoine  de  Saint-Exupéry,  Antal  Szerb,  Paul  Morand  and  Hermann  Hesse,  
as  well  as  some  of  the  most
exciting  contemporary  and  often  prize-winning  writers,  including  Pietro  
Grossi,  Héctor  Abad,  Filippo
Bologna and Andrés Neuman.

Pushkin Press publishes the world’s best stories, to be read and read again.
For more amazing stories, go to www.pushkinpress.com.


Copyright

Translated from the Italian by Archibald Colquhoun
Translation copyright © Archibald Colquhoun 1963
First published in Italian as Una vita in1893

First published by Pushkin Press in 2000
Reprinted 2006 in a revised edition

This ebook edition published in 2012 by Pushkin Press, 71-75 Shelton Street, 
London WC2H 9JQ
ISBN 9781908968777

Cover: Four Trees Egon Schiele © Österreichische Galerie Belvedere Vienna

All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a 
retrieval system or transmitted in any form or by any means,
electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording or otherwise, without prior 
permission in writing from Pushkin Press

www.pushkinpress.com

