This Business of Living

his sharp critical thinking about his own poetry and ﬁction, about
the books that he was reading or translating, or about literature
in general. But the poet and writer set even more ambitious goals
for this diary, and wondered to what extent it, too, was a literary
work comparable to his poetry:
  The interest of this journal would be the unforeseen profusion of ideas, the
  periods of inspiration that, of themselves, automatically, indicate the main
  trends of your inner life. From time to time you try to understand what you
  are thinking, and only as an afterthought do you go on to link your present
  ideas with those of days gone by. The originality of these pages is that you
  leave the construction to work itself out, and set your own spirit in front
  of you, objectively. There is something metaphysical in your conﬁdence
  that this psychological sequence of your thoughts will shape itself into a
  well-constructed work. (22 February 1940)

        If Pavese failed at the trade of living, he successfully—to
mimic his own penchant for implacable ironies—analyzed the
failure in This Business of Living, which he began keeping in 1935
and maintained frequently thereafter, with many entries recorded
for every year until 18 August 1950. This is why the challenge
put forward by the title must be kept in mind when reading his
creative work, and notably his gripping, life-ﬁlled short stories, as
well as four of the important novels—The Beach (1942), The House
on the Hill (1949), Among Women Only (1949), The Devil in the Hills
(1949)—that were brought together a few years ago, by New York
Review Books, as The Selected Works of Cesare Pavese, in a transla-
tion by R. W. Flint. As the diary amply reveals, few authors have
worked so long with such a heightened awareness of the perilous
gap between living and writing—and this tension can be felt in
the ﬁction. Few writers have so bravely stood astride the chasm, as
it were, observing how it widens inexorably, ever awaiting—while
continuing to write—the fated moment when they must fall.
        Yet if Pavese’s ﬁction is personal in this essential sense, its
deep-running autobiographical orientation is not immediately vis-
ible on the surface. Whereas his lifelong struggle with the prospect
of self-afﬂicted death is exhibited straightforwardly in his diary,
it is transposed imaginatively in haunting stories like “Wedding
Trip” or “Suicides” (to mention just those two), or in a novel like
Among Women Only. As early as 10 April 1936, he noted in This
    x
                             Introduction to the Transaction Edition

Business of Living: “I know that I am forever condemned to think
of suicide when faced with no matter what difﬁculty or grief….
My basic principle is suicide, never committed, never to be com-
mitted, but the thought of it caresses my sensibility.” Fourteen
days later, he was musing on whether “an optimistic suicide will
come back to the world again.” On 23 March 1938, he declared
that “no one ever lacks a good reason for suicide,” adding that
“you will never have the courage to kill yourself.” (For the preced-
ing quotation, the Italian original is, interestingly, in the plural
form.) Such avowals and self-tauntings are countless. The unity
of his oeuvre is thus that of a coin: two sides superﬁcially different
in the images that they put forward to the world, yet intimately
connected, even perhaps ultimately identical.
        From the onset of his diary writing, Pavese alludes to the
troubled relationship between living and writing by means of a
subtitle, Secretum professionale, which covers four months dur-
ing the ﬁrst two years (1935-1936) that he records. Evoked as
well in stories like “Land of Exile” and “Gaol Birds,” this same
period was marked by his arrest and ten-month imprisonment in
Brancaleone (Calabri) because of his editorials in the anti-fascist
magazine La Cultura. But surely the subtitle also recalls Petrarch’s
highly self-conscious Secretum (composed in Latin around 1347),
an imaginary confessional dialogue with his intellectual mentor,
Saint Augustine. Their dialogue revolves around Petrarch’s poetic,
spiritual, and amatory qualms.
        While analyzing in his diary (on 1 January 1940) what he
calls “stylized situations” (one of several critical concepts that he
forged), Pavese actually criticizes Petrarch for “confusing life and
art”; he sides with Dante, Stendhal, and Baudelaire because they
departed from real life by constructing self-contained “mental
situations” governed by internal laws. This distinction being made
(and whatever surprise one feels upon ﬁnding Stendhal thus cited),
Pavese’s own conﬂict between life and art remains arduous to
grasp in all its complexity. He himself admitted as much; his ﬁrst
diary entry in fact focuses on this question. His experiences quite
evidently fuel his ﬁction, yet he aims, stylistically, to transform
them—and in no simplistic manner. (It was Stendhal, after all,
                                                                 xi
    This Business of Living

who proposed that a novel, as it was borne down a road, held up
a mirror to reality.)
       To return to this parallel with Petrarch, a pre-eminent
European autobiographer, it is furthermore hard not to notice
that, like the author of the Canzoniere and Secretum, Pavese is a
perpetual doubter who constantly delves—in both his diary and
ﬁction—into Christian questions like guilt, charity, selﬂessness,
and necessary solitude; and secondly, that he likewise aspires to the
most sensual aspects of love all the while developing an authorial
vision whereby literature is the medium par excellence through
which life is approached or, alternately, kept at bay. Paradoxically,
for sensibilities such as Pavese’s (or Petrarch’s), only writing can
near one to life, or to the beloved other. The life one is living daily
actually remains—in one’s conscience, in one’s consciousness—at
a strange, and estranging, remove. This fundamental existential
aloneness and the inner life that results from it are analyzed time
and again by Pavese in his diary. To cite a telling maxim: “What
matters to an artist is not experience, but inward experience.” (17
September 1938). Hence, once again, the intimate relationship
between the diary and the creative oeuvre.
       Although Petrarch’s ornate rhetoric in his Italian love poetry
(his Latin prose is something else again) could not be more distant
from Pavese’s deceptively realist prose, the two writers equally
idealize yet at the same time harshly scrutinize women. Border-
ing on misogyny (as he himself admitted in his diary), Pavese
fatally linked love to morbidity. His grim ﬁnal poetry collection,
found on his desk after he had committed suicide, is signiﬁcantly
entitled Verrà la morte e avrà i tuoi occhi (1951), literally “Death
will Come and [She will] Have Your Eyes. “Death,” a feminine
noun in Italian, is here associated with Dowling, who had recently
left him. The poems are composed in short lines and there is little
emphasis on storytelling. In one tale collected in A. E. Murch’s
Cesare Pavese: Stories (The Ecco Press), the ﬁrst-person narrator
envisions self-destructive desires as occurring one step earlier. He
coolly concedes that every time he is in love he thinks of killing
himself. It seems that Pavese was driven by a perpetually adolescent
romanticism with respect to women, as well as, in contrast, by an
    xii
                              Introduction to the Transaction Edition

amorous philosophy so inﬂexibly pessimistic that any enduring
partnership was excluded in advance. This theme, too, is amply
present in the diary. On 18 November 1945, for instance: “I am
your lover, and therefore your enemy.” And the theme of “adoles-
cence,” in all its aspects, is another frequent concern of the diarist,
even and especially on 16 August 1950: “Why die? I have never
been so much alive as now, never so young.” (Pavese’s term for
“young” here is, once again, “adolescente.”)
        Interestingly, scenes in Pavese’s novels more often than not
involve, not a single man and a single woman interacting, but
rather a group of characters. Prolonged conversations between
these characters build up tension and authenticity; the author’s
written words, which presumably record once-spoken words, are
ontologically closer to what actually happened (i.e., was uttered) than
are descriptions. As they bring to the fore the difﬁculties of lasting
friendship, the forces of sexual attraction, the impasses of love, many
ﬁctional passages are conspicuously theatrical in narrative structure.
Plots shift decisively during parties, dances, or outings. A prime
example is the ménage à trois artfully studied in The Beach, a novel
otherwise portraying a small crowd of friends who have gathered
at the same summer resort. Not surprisingly, the dichotomy of the
individual and the group runs through the diary as well, such as in
this stunning remark of 5 June 1940, at the beginning of the Second
World War: “The reality of war suggests this simple thought: it is
not sad to die when so many of your friends are dying. War gives
one a sense of being one of a group. Welcome! Come on in!”
        It should already be obvious that the social dimension of
Pavese’s novel-writing deftly masks a much more somber awareness
of an individual’s abject aloneness. A clue to this subtle double-
layering can once again be found in his diary, when Pavese advises
caustically, on 9 February 1938, that any person convinced of a
human being’s utter solitude should “lose himself in innumerable
social entanglements, for they have little attraction for him.” He
also contended, on 31 December 1937, that writers “spoke” their
characters; that it was essentially the same thing if a novelist em-
ployed one character or several. “My lot is to hug shadows,” he
confessed in a letter dated 6 July 1950, referring not only to Dowl-
                                                                 xiii
    This Business of Living

ing but also—I would posit—to his habit of sectioning himself
off into characters. As lively and full-rounded as these characters
seem to us, they were hopelessly phantom-like for Pavese.
        Though resembling early-twentieth-century American
realism in certain ways, Pavese’s stories and novels are thus more
deeply structured around a series of fascinating oppositions. He
once noted that he lived “amid contradictions,” which he began
to list as “voluptuous-tragic, craven-heroic, sensual-idealistic...”
(3 January 1938). In his ﬁction, such antinomies add fathomless
ambiguity to relatively simple plot lines; they also enable him to
experiment with himself, even in novels ostensibly offering social
panoramas. He imaginatively crossed distances that he could not
cross in real life. He even uses a woman ﬁrst-person narrator in
Among Women Only, an engrossing novel exploring solitude and
the quest for affection even as it satirizes the afﬂuent milieus of
postwar Turin, Pavese’s hometown.
        Some stories similarly test hypotheses about how he might
have behaved in this or that amorous situation. In one of his most
absorbing tales, “The Family,” the ﬁctional Corradino runs into an
old girlfriend at a dance, starts going out with her again, only to
learn that he is the likely father of her illegitimate son—not coin-
cidentally named “Dino” and aged six-and-a-half. Having himself
suffered from the early deaths of his father (when he was six) and
mother (when he was twenty-two), Pavese seems to toy here with
what founding a family—even under such circumstances—might
be like. In Among Women Only, Momina, Morelli, and the narra-
tor Clelia likewise debate the advantages of “accepting life” and
“having children.” Pavese’s characters and alter egos often assay
the potential happiness of lifestyles that he never possessed.
        In “The Family,” moreover, Corradino longs “for some-
thing…to change his life without robbing him of...his old habits.”
He would like “to become a different man without being conscious
of it.” These secret aspirations for change—effortless changes,
immobile escapes—intensify Pavese’s stories because the changes
never come about. On the surface, his tales thereby recount “long
illusions,” as he himself puts it in The House on the Hill, a novel
set during the ﬁnal stages of the Second World War and charting
    xiv
                             Introduction to the Transaction Edition

the attempts of a Turin teacher, linked to the Italian underground
movement, to hide out in the surrounding hills, the very territory
of his lost childhood. During his seclusion, his recollected boyhood
tellingly becomes his surrogate “companion, colleague, son.” Yet
beneath his acts lurks the bleak truth that no recovery of the past
is possible, that no evolution in a human heart can take place.
Pavese’s diary (which, incidentally, comments very little on the
Second World War) discloses how relentlessly such dire axioms
ate away at him. In European literature, Marcel Proust is by no
means the only writer to probe the existential and philosophical
consequences of the urge or necessity to remember.
        Expectedly, Pavese elucidated, both for himself and more
generally as a critic, the “static essentials” of a novel, as they are
incarnated in a hero who remains the same from the beginning to
the end. In “Evocation,” an oddly rambling prose text departing
from the classical short-story form that Pavese normally practiced,
the narrator accordingly despairs because “nothing happens.” Sit-
ting in an empty corner of a tavern, he tries to “ﬁll the silence with
the sound of a distant tram.” Eventually a stranger sits down nearby,
rests his elbow on the table and his jaw on his ﬁst. The narrator
becomes fascinated with the man’s knuckles—just one of countless
instances, throughout Pavese’s oeuvre, where a minuscule detail is
magniﬁed obsessively, radiantly. In his poems, similarly, a nameless
woman’s “husky voice” recurrently crystallizes longing and resentment.
Scholars have since determined that this lady with the “voce rauca”
was the ﬁancée who broke off with Pavese shortly before his return
from prison. Whatever the autobiographical inspiration underlying
them, such details are “caressed,” as Vladimir Nabokov counseled his
disciples, and for reasons that transcend mere craftsmanship.
        Of course, Pavese surely learned much from the inherent
empiricism of English-language writing—a salient quality of
our literature, yet one which also harbors potential philosophi-
cal limitations. As an Americanist (who wrote a thesis on Walt
Whitman), he had already translated Sinclair Lewis’s Our Mr.
Wrenn, Herman Melville’s Moby Dick, Sherwood Anderson’s
Dark Laughter, John Dos Passos’s 42nd Parallel, as well as James
Joyce’s Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man, by the time his ﬁrst
                                                                 xv
    This Business of Living

poetry collection, Lavorare stanca (Hard Labor or Work’s Tiring),
devoted to village life and to his exile from it, was published in
1936. By 1943, when the second, revised and much expanded,
edition of this pioneering collection came out, he had produced
versions of Daniel Defoe’s Moll Flanders, Charles Dickens’s David
Copperﬁeld, Gertrude Stein’s Three Lives, William Faulkner’s The
Hamlet, and Melville’s Benito Cereno. But what he learned from
Anglo-American literature is perhaps not exactly what we Anglo-
American readers might think. Once again, the diary includes
several revealing passages on this subject; the most original is surely
this observation, of 28 April 1949:
  The Americans are not realists. I discovered this while watching an American
  ﬁlm remade from an old French ﬁlm. What had been real atmosphere, a
  genuine setting, was now a shabby backcloth. Their vaunted realism 1920-
  1940 was a particular kind of romanticism about “living reality.” The fanciful
  idea that everything is realism (Dos Passos). The point of view is not tragic,
  but “voluntaristic.” Tragedy is a clash with reality; “voluntarism” is to make
  a comfort of it, a way to escape from true reality.
       In a few sentences, Pavese overturns what is normally as-
sumed with respect to modern American ﬁction.
       Although Pavese was raised and schooled in Turin, a large
town in full sight of the nearby Alps, he spent childhood sum-
mers and once an entire year in his father’s native village of Santo
Stefano Belbo, located in the Langhe hills outside of the city. In
his diary, he makes this comment about the various inﬂuences
on his sensibility:
  Your classical knowledge stems from the Georgics, D’Annunzio, and the
  hill of Pino. To that background you added America because its language is
  rustic-universal...and because it’s the place where town and country meet.
  Yours is a rustic-classicism that could easily become prehistoric ethnology.
  (3 June 1943)

       So-called realistic details in Pavese thus conceal a still more
intricate motivation. The opposition between town and country-
side, as experienced during his childhood, directly relates to his
conscientious use of “images.” This opposition arises thematically
in the plots of several stories and novels, but also and especially in
probing reﬂections in the diary about how images spontaneously
engage his mind while he is writing. As early as 11 October 1935,
    xvi
                              Introduction to the Transaction Edition

he worries, for example, whether his “images” are perhaps nothing
more than an “ingenious elaboration” of a single “fundamental im-
age” associated with his paese, his homeland, the Piedmont region.
Ever scrupulous about the authenticity of his inspiration (in its
autobiographical aspects) and about the accuracy of his perceptions
(as he scrutinized the particulars of the outside world), he sought to
measure the extent to which he was naturally, that is unconsciously,
a “regional writer.” The earnestness and obsessiveness of his self-in-
terrogation of course reveals how unnatural a regionalist he actually
was. It is because he felt, as an adult, incurably separated from
his at once beloved and tragic childhood memories, attached to
village life and the death of his father, that he could use them so
profoundly in his writing. This is why The House on the Hill (to
cite just that novel) is cryptically, essentially, autobiographical.
       His remarkable details, moreover, function like bridges
leading away from the self, enabling the Italian writer to cross over
into the pure, emotionless, objective world of matter. Such bridge-
crossings perhaps brought temporary relief. The reader certainly
takes pleasure whenever Pavese abruptly focuses on, say, “the toes of
Cate’s little shoes.” But probably the pleasure (for Pavese) of these
lovingly rendered close-ups, of these desperate leaps toward the
“thing-in-itself,” was short-lived. He confessed in his diary, on 24
November 1935, that his “contemplation of things” was ultimately
always “inquieta”—“anxious,” “troubled,” “uneasy,” “restless.”
       “Inquieta” indeed. One senses that Pavese was soon gazing,
no longer at the thing, but inwards. In his diary, he declares that
people in a story have a given character and that things happen in
accordance with “pre-determined laws.” But the point of the story,
he insists, must lie neither in these characters nor in those laws.
For all his apparent realism, it is to his credit that such “points” are
rarely easy to deduce or deﬁne. But they certainly stir up a pervasive
“un-quietness” extending well beyond the narratives themselves,
and one imagines Pavese—his own analysis of Dante, Stendhal,
and Baudelaire notwithstanding—ultimately holding up a mirror
to himself, self-splintered into a host of surrogate characters, each
struggling to recover an impossible wholeness and to master that
redoubtable “trade of living.”
                                                                 xvii
    This Business of Living

                                 *     *    *
       This exciting reissue of Pavese’s diary also follows upon the
rediscovery of his poetry in the United States, thanks to Geoffrey
Brock’s vivid renderings in Disaffections: Complete Poems 1930-
1950 (Copper Canyon). As with his ﬁction, Pavese surprised the
ﬁrst readers of his poetry with his sharp “American” eye for detail.
Even taking into account the reservations that I have expressed
above about his realism, Pavese’s stylistic directness nonetheless
dissociated him from contemporaneous “Hermetic” poets like
Giuseppe Ungaretti, Eugenio Montale, or Salvatore Quasimodo,
all noted for their highly personal symbolism. Pavese, moreover,
had an intimate knowledge of the countryside, of its villagers and
farm laborers, as well as of those who had migrated to large cities
in search of work. (And Turin exempliﬁed the postwar socio-
economic transformation of Italy.) This being said, he was never
a committed writer, despite his membership in the Communist
Party after the Second World War and his passing interest in
Marxism. He possessed something much more precious than a
political theory: a natural sensitivity to the plight and dignity of
common people, be they bums, priests, grape-pickers, gas-station
attendants, ofﬁce workers, or anonymous girls picked up on the
street (though to women, the author could—as he admitted—be
as misogynous as he was affectionate). Some of Pavese’s most
memorable poems depict peasant girls who become prostitutes in
Turin. In “The Country Whore,” he describes one such woman
awakening, details her memory of being sexually abused during
childhood, then adds:
  It often returns, in the slow rise from sleep,
  that undone aroma of far-off ﬂowers,
  of barns and of sun. No man can know
  the subtle caress of that sour memory.

       As I have mentioned, although Pavese was raised in Turin,
he spent childhood summers and one entire year in his father’s
village of Santo Stefano Belbo. Both the style and subject matter
used by some American writers—surely Anderson and Lewis, not
to forget Edgar Lee Masters, whose Spoon River Anthology is dis-
    xviii
                              Introduction to the Transaction Edition

cussed in the diary—helped the aspiring Italian poet understand
more profoundly the universal signiﬁcance (and lasting enigmas)
of this double childhood linked to a cosmopolitan city as well as
to lower Piedmont. Certainly American writers’ interest in manual
labor, small towns, and the new urban working classes provided an
encouraging literary paradigm for Pavese, who sought the aesthetic
means to deal with what he had eyewitnessed among his family
members and their acquaintances. One of his ﬁrst poetic experi-
ments, “South Seas” (which is, moreover, attributed a key role in
Pavese’s ﬁrst diary entry and also subsequently), notably relates
the life of a cousin who leaves the poverty of his village behind
and, for two decades, sails the world, seeking his fortune. He ﬁ-
nally returns and opens a gas station—which fails. For southern
Europeans, self-imposed economic exile was frequent; and not all
homecomings were glorious.
        In two important memoirs, “The Poet’s Craft” and “On
Certain Poems That Have Not Yet Been Written,” as well as in the
opening Secretum professionale section of his diary, Pavese recalls his
struggle to ﬁnd a poetic language that could reﬂect an Italy that
was evolving rapidly, indeed brutally. This language would also
have to express his personal pain associated with the countryside,
notably his father’s early death. So convincing is the autobiographi-
cal atmosphere of Pavese’s poems that it is impossible to read those
(implicitly) set in Santo Stefano Belbo without thinking of their
real-life models: friends and neighbors of the poet’s father. Could
Pavese have sensed that his father, too, was somehow temporar-
ily revived in such poems? Masters and Whitman were especially
decisive in Pavese’s quest to resuscitate the archetypal ﬁgures of
this doomed rural past, even if he ultimately rejected free verse
along with classical Italian poetic forms. One day, as he recounts
in “The Poet’s Craft,” he spontaneously discovered (or rather,
re-discovered) the thirteen-syllable, four-feet anapestic lines that
would become his hallmark: “I found myself muttering a certain
jumble of words (which turned into a pair of lines from ‘South
Seas’) in a pronounced cadence that I had used for emphasis ever
since I was a child, when I would murmur over and over the
phrases that obsessed me most in the novels I was reading.”
                                                                 xix
    This Business of Living

       This particular meter, which is rather strange for ears trained
in the endecasillabo and the settenario, is respected quite rigorously
in Work’s Tiring (as Brock prefers to call Lavorare stanca, as opposed
to William Arrowsmith’s 1976 version, Hard Labor). Pavese oc-
casionally adds or deletes a metrical foot, but he otherwise creates
a uniﬁed metrical impression. In the introduction to his French
translation (Travailler fatigue / La Mort viendra et elle aura tes yeux,
1969), Gilles de Van praises the originality of this “regular rhythm,
without syncopation, without abrupt surprises, without [lyrical]
research, without [undue] reﬁnement.”
       Brock’s highly crafted translation much improves on
Arrowsmith’s rendering. Brock’s volume also comprises poems
contemporaneous to Work’s Tiring but not included in the two
editions of that book, as well as the posthumously published,
dark-toned, and still very popular sequence, Death Will Come
and Will Have Your Eyes. In all cases, Brock ﬁnely renders Pavese’s
“tight-lipped rhythm,” as he aptly puts it. Intensity, even some-
times despair, characterize Pavese’s verse, though brief moments
of hope are recorded. In “Two Cigarettes,” for example, a woman
asks the narrator for a match to light her cigarette, then engages
a conversation with him. Pavese concludes:
  Two butts, now, on the asphalt. We look at the sky:
  that window up there, she says pointing, is ours—
  but the heater’s not working. At night, lost steamers
  have little to steer by, maybe only the stars.
  We cross the street, arm in arm, playfully warming each other.

        Yet such amorous optimism is rare. Pavese’s ephemeral love
affairs are delineated in stark lines because the poet was already
tormented, at the onset of the relationship, by the inevitability of
loss. An early poem, “Words for a Girlfriend” already formulates this
fundamental pessimism: “I am alone, and I’ll be alone always.” In a
diary entry dated 18 June 1946, he remarks: “It is ridiculous to look
for altruism in a passion composed wholly of pride and voluptuous-
ness.” The next day he adds: “I begin to write poetry when the game
is lost, but a poem has never been known to change things.”
        Though solitude is Pavese’s most salient theme, his poetry
also sometimes resembles the “neighborly” short story that we as-

    xx
                               Introduction to the Transaction Edition

sociate with, say, Winesburg, Ohio. In Work’s Tiring, the poems are
long (averaging twenty-ﬁve to thirty lines), center on a character or
two, evoke action directly, or use action as a mirror of a character’s
thoughts. The Italian poet invented this speciﬁc literary genre,
which he called a poesia-racconto, a “poem-story.” Despite their
length, however, the poems contain no excess lyricism, bathos,
or extensive description. As for dialogue, a quoted remark or two
sufﬁces to conjure up an entire personality. In “Betrayal,” which is
typical of Pavese’s simultaneous yearning for and cynicism toward
women, the narrator takes a “new woman” for a rowboat ride. She
responds to “the boisterous Po, its bright sun, its echoes / of quick
waves and sand-diggers” with this terse comment:
  “So enchanting,” she said
  without moving her body or taking her eyes off the sky.

      Pavese excels at bringing out the density of such moments,
in which nothing really happens. Yet also impressive are several
poems in which he announces a tragedy (“Last night, there was a
boy / who fell off this roof, breaking his back”), then immediately
focuses on the so-called insigniﬁcant events taking place nearby:
  The wind rifﬂes the cool leaves of the trees.
  The red clouds above are warm and move slowly.
  A stray dog appears in the alley below, snifﬁng
  the body on the cobblestones, and a raw wail
  rises up among chimneys: someone’s unhappy.

       Here and elsewhere, he develops the notion that the saddest
dramas occur almost imperceptibly, a philosophy reinforcing his
theme of solitude. Yet beyond this poetic exposition of an idea, it
is more characteristic of Pavese to aim for a scrupulous rendering
of reality—the ideas being illustrated, not explained. After all,
from a strictly phenomenological viewpoint, cool leaves, slowly
moving red clouds, and a stray dog indeed vie for our attention
as insistently as a boy’s corpse. One can compare this poem—“Af-
fairs”—to Auden’s “Musée des Beaux Arts,” in which a similar
philosophy is brought to the fore, yet more explicitly.
       Few lines in Pavese’s poetry are memorable, but an overall
impression remains indelible in the reader’s mind. Perhaps this
is because many “poem-stories” are in fact “poem-portraits.” In
                                                                  xxi
    This Business of Living

“Dina Thinking,” Pavese goes so far as to adopt the voice of a
prostitute who, while swimming naked in a stream, reﬂects on
her life in the ﬁrst-person personal. For a poet who evokes in-
curable solitude so often, Pavese was a master empathizer. With
admirable subtlety, he reveals the intricacies of another person’s
thought patterns, even as he is describing the character from the
outside, in the third person. In “Deola Thinking,” for instance,
he portrays a prostitute who has left a brothel for good and now
“only works evenings, making slow conquests / to music, in her
usual bar.” Each morning she spends time in a café, drinking milk,
eating brioches, and smoking serenely. “This morning she’s nearly
a lady,” remarks Pavese, whose objective descriptions gradually
merge with the woman’s thoughts:
  The girls at the house are still sleeping. The air stinks,
  the madam goes out for a walk, it’s crazy to stay there.
  To work the bars in the evening you have to look good;
  at that house, by thirty, you’ve lost what little looks you had left.

       Brock’s translations of these Edward Hopper-like scenes
bristle with intelligent decisions. Even the hesitating quibbler
(who notices a singular “street” in the English for an Italian plural,
and a few other minor departures from the original) perceives
how much attention Brock has paid to the way that Italians and
English-language readers respectively form mental pictures with
words. He often brilliantly translates at this conceptual level. And
he has been very careful with the music of these poems—they
are a delight to read. On the whole, this version is outstanding
and deserves a wide readership. In his introduction, he alludes
to American poets (like Philip Levine) who have acknowledged
their debt to Pavese. Thanks to Brock, there will be others. And
their appreciation of both the ﬁction and poetry will be greatly
enhanced by This Business of Living.
                                                         John Taylor

Note: A shorter form of this introduction appeared in John
Taylor’s Into the Heart of European Poetry (Transaction Publish-
ers, 2008).

    xxii
1935
INNERMOST THOUGHTS ON MY WORI(l


(October- December, 1935, and February, 1936, at
Brancaleone)

         The fact that some of my latest poems carry conviction
in no way minimizes the importance of the truth that I com-
pose them with ever-increasing diffidence and reluctance. With
me, the joy of creation is sometimes extraordinarily keen,
yet even that no longer matters much. Both these things can
be explained by the facility I have acquired in handling
metrical forms, which robs me of the thrill of hewing out a
finished work from a mass of raw material, or by my concern
with the practical aspects of life, which adds a passionate
exaltation to my meditation on certain poems.
         There is this to consider, too. More and more, the
effort seems to me pointless, not worth while, and what is
produced is either a harping on the same string or the fruit of
prolonged searchings for new things to say, and consequently
for new modes of expression. What gives poetry its intensity,
from its very inception, is in reality a preoccupation with
hitherto unperceived spiritual values, suddenly revealed as
possibilities. I find my ultimate defense against this mad
craze for novelty at all costs in my unshaken conviction that
the apparent monotony and austerity of the style at my com-
1 Ideally, Pavese's essay "On Writing Poetry," contained in his collection
of poems Lavorare Stanca ( 1934) should be read as an introduction. Ed.
                                                                  7
    This Business of Living
mand may still make it the best medium for conveying my
spiritual experiences. But such examples as I can find in
history-if in the realm of spiritual creativeness it is permis-
sible to dwell upon precedents of any sort-are all against me.
         There was, however, a time when I had very vividly in
mind a store of material-passionate and supremely simple,
the substance of my own experience-to be clarified and
interpreted in writing poetry. Every attempt I made was
subtly, but inevitably, linked with that fundamental purpose,
so that, no matter how fantastic the nucleus of each new
poem, I never felt I was losing my way. I sensed that I was
composing a whole that always transcended the fragment
 (of the moment).
         The day came when my vital stock had been entirely
used up in my works and I seemed to be spending my time
merely in retouching or polishing. So true is this, that-as I
realized more clearly after studying the work I had already
done-I no longer troubled to seek for deeper poetic dis-
coveries, as though it were merely a question of applying a
skillful technique to a state of mind. Instead, I was making
a poetic farce of my poetic vocation. In other words, I was
reverting to an error that earlier I had recognized and avoided,
 (which is how I first learned to write with assurance and
creative freshness), the error of writing poetry, even though
indirectly, about myseH as a poet. My reaction to this sense
of involution is that henceforth it will be vain for me to seek
a new starting point within myself. From the time when I
wrote M ari del Sud, in which I first began to express myself
precisely and completely, I have gradually created a spiritual
personality that I can never, wittingly, set aside, on pain of
nullifying or calling into question all my future hypothetical
inspiration as a writer. In response, therefore, to my present
feeling of impotence, I bow to the necessity for cross-examining
 my own mind, using only those methods which it has found
 congenial and effective in the past, and considering each
individual discovery in relation to its potential importance.
 Granted that poetry is brought to light by striving after it,
not by talking about it.
     8
                                                       1935
       So far, I have confined myseH, as if by caprice, to
poetry in verse. Why do I never attempt a different genre?
There is only one answer, inadequate though it may be. It is
not out of caprice, but from cultural considerations, sentiment,
and now habit, that I cannot get out of that vein, and the
crazy idea of changing the form to renovate the substance
would seem to me shabby and amateurish.

gth October
        Every poet has known anguish, wonderment, joy. The
admiration we feel for a passage of great poetry is never
inspired by its amazing cleverness, but by the fresh discovery
it contains. If we thrill with delight on finding an adjective
successfully linked with a noun never seen with it before, it
is not its elegance that moves us, the flash of genius or the
poet's technical skill, but amazement at the new realities it
has brought to light.
        It is worth pondering over the potent effect of images
such as cranes, a serpent or cicadas; a garden, a whore or the
wind; an ox, or a dog. Primarily, they are made for works
of sweeping construction, because they typify the casual glance
given to external things while carefully narrating affairs of
human importance. They are like a sigh of relief, like looking
out of a window. With their air of decorative detail, like
many-colored chips from a solid trunk, they attest to the
unconscious austerity of their creator. They require a natural
incapacity for rustic sentiment. Clearly and frankly they
make use of nature as a means to an end, as something sub-
ordinate to the main issue, entertaining but incidental. This,
be it understood, is the traditional view. My own conception
of images as the basic substance of a theme runs counter to
that idea. Why? Because the poetry we write is short; because
we seize upon and hammer into some significance a particular
state of mind, which in itself is the beginning and the end.
So it is not for us to embellish the rhythm of our abbreviated
discourse with naturalistic flourishes. That would be pure
affectation. We can either concern ourselves with some other
subject and ignore nature with all its fertile imagery, or confine
                                                           9
      This Business of Living
ourselves to conveying the naturalistic state of mind, in which
case the glance through the window becomes the substance of
 the whole construction. But with other kinds of writing, we
have only to think of any vast modern work-1 have novels
in mind-and amid the usual medley of homespun inter~
polations due to our irrepressible romanticism we find dear~
cut instances of this play of natural imagery.
         Supreme among ancients and modems for his ability
to combine the diverting image and the image·story is Shake-
speare, whose work is constructed on an immense scale and
yet is essentially a glance through the window. He evokes a
flash of scintillating imagery from some dull clod of humanity
and at the same time constructs the scene, indeed the whole
play, as an inspired interpretation of his state of mind. The
explanation lies in his superlative technique as a dramatist,
embracing every aspect of humanity-and to a lesser degree
of nature.
         He has snatches of lyrics at his finger tips and builds
them into a solid structure. He, alone in all the world, can
tell a story and sing a song simultaneously.
        Even assuming that I have hit upon the new technique
I am trying to clarify for myself, it goes without saying that,
here and there, it may contain traits borrowed in embryo
from other techniques. This hinders me from seeing dearly
the essential characteristics of my own style. (Contradicting
Baudelaire, with all due respect, it may be said that not every-
thing in poetry is predictable. When composing, one sometimes
chooses a form not for any deliberate reason but by instinct,
creating without knowing precisely how.) It is true that
instead of weaving my plot development objectively, I tend
to work in accordance with the calculated, yet fanciful, law
of imagination. But to know how far calculation may go,
what importance to attach to a fanciful law, where the image
ends and logic begins, these are tricky little problems.
        This evening, walking below red cliffs drenched in
moonlight, I was thinking what a great poem it would make
to portray the god incarnate in this place, with all the imagina-
tive allusions appropriate to such a theme. Suddenly I was
     10
                                                         1935
surprised by the realization that there is no such god. I know
it, I am convinced of it, and therefore, though someone else
 might be able to write that poem, I could not. I went on to
reflect how allusive, how all-pervading~1 every future subject
 must be to me, in the same way that a belief in the god
incarnate in these red rocks would have to be real and
all-pervadingl to a poet who used this theme.
        Why cannot I write about these red, moonlit cliffs?
Because they reflect nothing of myself. The place gives me a
vague uneasiness, nothing more, and that should never be
sufficient justification for a poem. If these rocks were in
Piedmont, though, I could very well absorb them into a flight
of fancy and give them meaning. Which comes to the same
thing as saying that the fundamental basis of poetry may be
a subconscious awareness of the importance of those bonds of
sympathy, those biological vagaries, that are already alive, in
embryo, in the poet's imagination before the poem is begun.
        Certainly it ought to be possible, even for me, to create
a poem on a subject whose background is not Piedmont. It
ought to be, but hardly ever has been, so far. Which means
that I have not yet progressed beyond the simple re-elabora-
tion of the images materially represented by my innate links
with my environment. In other words, there is a blind spot
in my work as a poet, a material limitation that I do not want,
but cannot succeed in eliminating. But is it then really an
objective residuum or something indispensable in my blood?

I 1 thOctober
         Could all my images be nothing more than an ingen-
ious elaboration of a fundamental image: as my native land,
so am I? But then the poet's imagination would be impersonal,
indistinguishable from the terms of comparison, regional and
social, of Piedmont. The essence of his message would be that
he and his country, regarded as mutually complementary, are
beautiful. Is this all? Is this the fateful Quarto? 2

1Pavese stresses this tenn in English in the original text. Ed.
2The point from which Garibaldi set out on his expedition to Sicily.
Pavese is quoting, ironically, a line from Carducci. Ed.

                                                           11
      This Business of Living
         Or, rather, is it not simply that between Piedmont and
myself there runs a current of sympathetic impulses, some
conscious, some unconscious, which I shape and dramatize
as best I can: in image-stories? A relationship that begins
with an affinity between one's blood and the climate, the very
air, of home, and ends in that wearisome spiritual drift that
disturbs me and other Piedmontese? Do I express spiritual
things by speaking of material things, and vice versa? And this
labor of substitution, allusion, imagination, how far can it be
valued as an indication of that "allusive and all-pervading
essence" of ours?
         To counter any suspicion that my work may be merely
a Piedmontese Revival, there are good reasons for believing
it may broaden and deepen Piedmontese values. My justifi-
cation for saying so? This. My writing is not dialectic. (How
:fiercely instinct and reason made me fight to avoid dialectism I)
It refuses to be super:ficial-1 paid for that by experience!
It draws its sustenance from the strongest roots, national and
 traditional; it strives to keep its eyes on world trends in
literature, and has been particularly aware of literary experi-
ments and achievements in North America, where at one
time I thought I had discovered an analogous development.
 Perhaps the fact that American culture no longer interests me
in the least, means that I have outgrown this Piedmontese
 point of view. I think it does; at any rate the viewpoint I have
had hitherto.

15th October
        Yet we must have a new starting point. When the mind
has grown used to a certain mechanical method of creation,
an equally strong force is needed to get it out of that rut, so
that, instead of those monotonous, self-propagating fruits of
the spirit, it can produce something with a strange new flavor,
sprung from a graft never tried before. Not that some external
impetus can take the place of mental effort, but that one
must completely transform the subject and the means, and so
come face to face with new problems. Given a fresh starting
     12
                                                       t935
point, the mind will, of course, regain its usual zest, but
without some such springboard I cannot rise above my lazy
habit of reducing everything to the pattern of an image-story.
I need some outside intervention to change the direction of
my instinctive lines of thought and so prepare them for fresh
discoveries.
         If I have truly lived these four years of poetry, so much
the better: that cannot but help me towards greater incon-
testability and a better sense of expression. The first few times,
it will seem to me that I have reverted to my own earliest
days. It will even seem to me that I have nothing to say. But
I must not forget how much at a loss I felt before M ari del
Sud, and how, as I went along, I grasped an understanding
of my world that I created. Not before. That does not mean,
though, that my difficulties, today, have not grown worse. In
Lavorare Slanea there was all my experience from the day
when I opened my eyes, and such was my joy at bringing my
first gold to light that I felt no tedium. Then, everything in
me was yet to be discovered. Now that I have exhausted that
vein, I am too worn-out, too circumscribed, to be still strong
enough to throw myself with high hopes into making a new
excavation. The terrain is all sounded and measured, and I
know what constitutes my originality. Furthermore, in my
innumerable pre-poetic attempts, the very things I dropped
and crushed were the methods of narration used in prose and
the novel. I know only too well the obstacles of this path.
I have even shorn from it the stimulating joy of an initial
 contact. Yet this is the path I must pursue.

16th October
        Now that I have, as I intended, expressed the parallel
I am glad to know exists between myself and Piedmont, what
will be the new atmosphere of my poetry? The new set of
values, abstract yet empiric, that will enable me to gather up
and unify the various scattered fragments? And perhaps make
the accumulation into a book?
        This atmosphere, this revaluation, ought to be such as
                                                          t3
      This Business of Living
to justify me in history. Now, what historical developments do
I actually believe in? Revolutions, perhaps? But, leaving aside
 the fact that never has any good poetry been inspired by a
 revolution in action, any enthusiasm I feel about them is no
more than skin deep. Naturally, it would not be a question
of describing the tumults, the speeches, the bloodshed and
triumphs of a revolution, but of living in its moral atmosphere
and from that standpoint surveying and judging life. Have I
experienced this spiritual regeneration? No, and so far in life
my tendency has been to advocate enjoying things as they are,
rather than to agitate for reforms. Hence my incapacity for
becoming a revolutionary, even with the motive of studying
life from a new angle, however much it may please me to
toy with the idea. I can only hope that I may come across
other historical values, not violently revolutionary, and exer-
cise my imagination on those as best I can.
         Which is very reasonable. From what one hears, the
only trends that exist nowadays are towards violent revolution.
But everything in history is revolution; even a reformation
that comes about gradually and peacefully. Then away with
all this carefully worked-up oratory, these speakers who urge
reform by means of active violence (by other people, natu-
rally!). Away with that childish need for noise and being one
of a crowd! I must content myself with a tiny little discovery
expressed in a single poem, and show my moral rejuvenation
by my humble submission to the destiny imposed on me by my
very nature. Which is most reasonable. Unless it is just laziness
or cowardice.

I7th October
         This morning I took up again, and finished, the poem
about the hare. I had lost heart with it, simply because a hare
hardly seemed a worth-while subject, and I feel a certain
self-satisfaction at having persisted in my effort. It really
seems to me that my technique has become automatic, so
that, without deliberately thinking about it, my ideas now
come out in the form of images, as if in obedience to that
    14
                                                             1935
fanciful law I mentioned on the xoth. And I am very much
afraid that this means it is time to change the tune, or at
least the instrument. Otherwise I shall find myself sketching
out a critical study of a poem even before I write it. And it
becomes a burlesque affair, like the bed of Procrustes.
        So my formula for the future is discovered: if once I
tormented my mind to create a blending of my lyrical forms
 (praised for their passionate ardor) and my style of letter-
writing (praiseworthy for its logical, imaginative restraint),
and •the result was M ari del Sud, with all the works that
followed it; now I must find the secret of fusing the fantastic,
trenchant vein of Lavorare stanca with that of the pornoteca: 1
slapstick, realistically declaimed to its public. And beyond all
doubt, that will mean prose.
        For one thing (among many) seems to me intolerable
to an artist: to lose the feeling of starting something fresh.

Igth October
       On rereading the x6th October, I think that precisely
because I have already expressed the parallel between myself
and Piedmont, this element must nevermore be lacking in my
future poetry. For I imagine that nothing I have sought out
can be lost, and that progress consists of an ever-increasing
pulverization of experiences, casting new upon the old.

2 xst   October
            u    sicut nunc foemina quaeque
                  •
            cum peperit, dulci repletur lacte •• _,,

27th October
         ccin gremium matris terrai praecipitavit/,

28th October
         Poetry begins when a simpleton says of the sea: "It
looks like oil!" This is not exactly the best possible description
1 Cf. Pavese's essay on Il mestiere di poeta, in the Appendix to Lavorare
Stanca. Ed.

                                                                15
    This Business of Living
of a flat calm, but he is pleased at discovering the similarity,
tickled by the idea of a mysterious connection, and feels he
must tell the world what he has noticed. But it would be
equally foolish to stop at that. Having started the poem, one
must finish it, work up the idea with a wealth of associations
and skillfully arrive at an assessment of its value. There you
have a typical poem, based on an idea. But usually the writing
stems from sentiment-the exact description of a flat calm-
that occasionally foams with the discovery of relationships.
The typical poem may possibly be remote from reality, con~
sisting up to now (just as we can even live on microbes) of
mere odds and ends of similarities (sentiment) ; constructive
thought (logic); and associations caught at random (poetry).
A more arbitrary combination would probably be foolish and
unbearable.

1st November
         It is interesting, this idea that sentiment in art may be
purely a fragmentary likeness, such as a precise description
of a flat cahn, a description, that is, in plain terms without
any mention of imaginary associations and without the intru~
sion of logic.
         But if it is conceivable to describe something without
evoking images (which the very nature of language denies),
can there possibly be any description without logical thought?
If one remarks that a tree is green, is not that an expression
of opinion? Or if it seems ridiculous to associate such a banal
thought with logic, where does banality end and logical
thought begin? The second paragraph I leave to a better
philosopher. It seems to me generally correct that sentiment
is describing something appropriately. To utilize the emotions
to discover connecting links is, in fact, already a matter of
elaborating these experiences rationally.
         And how is it that the nature of language denies the
 possibility of not using images? That verde is derived from
 vis, and alludes to the power of vegetation, is a fine point of
 contact and beyond question; but equally beyond question is
     16
                                                      1935
the actual simplicity of this word and its immediate applica-
tion to a single idea. The fact that arrivare, to arrive, once
meant approdare, to disembark, and that originally it evoked
a nautical imagery to say that winter was arriving, does not
detract from the absolute objectivity of the same observation,
made now. So my parenthesis was stupid, and we can go and
eat nuts.

gth November
         This search for a new starting point is linked with a
craze for construction. I have already said there can be no
poetic value in a collection of lyrics masquerading as a poem,
and yet I am always wondering how to arrange my little
poems in such a way as to be able to add to their number
and make their significance complete. Again it seems to me
that all I have done is to depict states of mind. Again, I have
fallen short of the standard I should have reached in summing
up the world around me.
         It is certain that the studied arrangement of the poems
in a canzone depends on nothing more than the pleasure of
ornamentation and reflection. That is, taking for example the
poems of Fleurs du Mal, they may be arranged this way or
that, and the effect can be charming, illuminating, even
critical, but nothing more. Given the poems as already com-
posed, but the fact that Baudelaire composed them in that
way, one by one, yet convincing and closely linked in their
total effect, like a tale, could that not stem from the moral,
well-judged, exhaustive conception of them as a whole? Per-
haps a page of the Divina Commedia would lose its intrinsic
value as a comment upon the whole if it were cut away from
the poem or transposed?
         But, postponing to a better time the analysis of the
unity of the Commedia, is it possible to evaluate as part of a
whole a poem conceived as an individual work, under the
swift wing beat of inspiration? Did Baudelaire not conceive a
poem as complete in itself? Did he think it out as a link in a
chain with the others? It does not seem likely to me.
                                                        17
      This Business of Living
         There is another point. Granted that a poem is not
clear to the author, in its deepest significance, until it is com-
pletely finished, how is it possible for him to construct the book
except by reflecting upon the poems already written? The
canzone is therefore always an afterthought. Yet the objection
still remains that long poetical works have been conceived as
a whole-leaving aside the Commedia,-certainly the plays of
Shakespeare. It must be said: the unity of these works comes
precisely from the realistic persistence of the character, from
the naturalistic evolution of the action, which, taking place in
a keenly acute consciousness, loses its material nature and ac-
quires a spiritual significance, becomes a state of mind.

10th November
         Why am I forever insisting that the subject in my
poems must be treated exhaustively, ethically, critically? I,
who cannot feel it is right for one man to judge another? This
pretension of mine is nothing more than a vulgar desire to
"have my say." Which is far from dispensing justice. Do I
live justly? Does justice mean anything to me in human affairs?
Then why claim to pass judgment on matters of poetry?
         H there is any human figure in my poetry, it is that of
a truant running back, full of joy, to his own village, where
to him everything is picturesque and full of color; a man who
likes to work as little as he can; finding great pleasure in the
simplest things; always expansive, good-natured, set in his
views; incapable of deep suffering; happy tq follow nature
and enjoy a woman, but also glad to be free and on his own;
ready every morning to start life afresh. As in Mari del Sud.

 12th November
        The above may be a generalization. I would have to
make an inventory of the poems in the book that do not fit
in that framework. It is obvious that they cannot be classified
by differences in what happens, because everything happens to
my protagonist, but by differences of feeling, for example:
     18
                                                        1935
endurance in suffering, dread of solitude, dissatisfaction with
nature, prudence and malice. Of these attributes, the only one
so far that I find exceptionally well expressed is impatience
with sexual loneliness. (Maternita and Paternita.)
         But I have a presentiment that the new way will not
be in the manner I have already pursued far and wide, nor
in the various "refusals" conjured up in my mind by oppo-
sition, but by making use of some indirect method that, while
conserving the personality already acquired, will impercep-
tibly displace those interests and that experience. This hap-
pened at the time of Una stagione, when, by interesting myself
in the carnal life I had till then despised, I conquered a new
world of forms (a leap from M ari del Sud to Dio caprone).
But the search for a new personality is sterile. What is fruitful
is the human interest the old personality can have in new
activities.

16th November
           The most pressing aesthetic problem, mine and of my
era, is, of course, this question of the unity of a work of poetry:
whether one should content oneself with the rule-of-thumb
limit....tions accepted in the past, or explain those limitations
as a transfiguration of matter into poetic spirit, or seek for
some new co-ordinating principle of the substance of poetry.
Those present-day pulverizers of poetry, poets of precision,
have been aware of this problem and have refused to recog-
nize the three points just mentioned. We must return to the
poetry of situation. Accepting the situations of the past, just
as they are, or presenting a new spiritual method of resolving
facts or actions into situations?
           The new manner that I thought I had created-the
image-narrative--now seems to me of no more value than any
other hellenistic rhetorical medium. A simple discovery, in
other words, of a sort of repetition or in medias res, which has
on occasion a great effect, but does not suffice to form an
adequate perspective.
                                                           19
     This Business of Living

17th November
        Being at a distance from it, I begin to discover quali·
ties that condition art in Piedmont, and particularly in Turin.
City of fantasy, through her aristocratic culture composed of
elements new and old; city of decorum, through the complete
absence of any jarring note, material or spiritual; city of pas-
sion, in her kindly indulgence towards idleness; city of irony,
through her own good taste for life; a model city, with her
calm rich in underlying tumult. A city virgin in art, like a
girl who has already seen others making love but, for her own
part, has tolerated only caresses so far, yet is now ready, if
she finds the right man, to take the step. The city, in fine,
where I am spiritually reborn when I reach it from anywhere
outside: my lover, not my mother nor my sister. And many
others feel this same relationship with her. How can she fail
to exert a cultural influence? And I form a part of a group.
The conditions are all present.

24th November
         It seems to me I am discovering my new vein. It would
concern itself with a restless contemplation of things, even the
things of Piedmont. I perceive that first I ~orked in dreamy
contemplation (Mari del Sud, Paesaggio a Tina, Ritratto
d'autore), and that, not only after the 15th of Mai but even
in works I wrote before this year (Lavorare stanca, Ulisse,
Avventure, Esterno) there intruded a tremor, a sadness, a note
of pain, at first unconscious or sternly repressed. It goes with-
out saying that, since the period May-August, this has become
the rule. This new quest of mine fuses together overtones that
are more apprehensive, more spiritual, and a renewed, passion-
ate materialism sure in its promise. Can these be my whispers
of heavenly death? Anyway, to have a clear idea of the tran-
sition, compare the Paesaggio about the gun with the Luna
1 The date when Pavese was sentenced to prison for anti-communist
activities. Ed.
     20
                                                      1935
d' Agosto: what, in the first, was an entirely descriptive spir-
itualization of a scene, in the second is in reality the creation
of a natural mystery concerning human anguish.

5th December
        There must be some significance in the fact, when
evolving my literary style, I had no help at all from any
facility I may have in dealing with sexual matters, M ari del
Sud, Antenati, Fumatori di carta, all ignore that vein. If it
entered into the argument at all, it was as something known
and despised. (Remember Donne Perdute, Blues dei Blues,
M aestrine.) A fresh preoccupation with the subject began in
Canzone di Strada and Tradimento, in the form of vivid
descriptions of sensory experiences. Then it burst forth like
new material projected into the world in Una Stagione, in
which the argument was solely concerned with the importance
and all-pervadingness of sex, interpreting every sensation as the
equivalent of a sex reaction ("the March wind pressing against
one's clothing" ) . One way of avoiding the quagmire of actual,
facile, matter-of-fact description is a mischievous humbling
of sexual sensations. But how is it that this teasing sexual ex-
hilaration can exist side by side with disquieting abstract
thought? At first sight it seems that they would counteract
each other.

6th December
        To those old-fashioned types who are not quite sure
that God exists, but who, even while they scoff, are aware of
Him every now and then under their skin, it seems a fine thing
to blaspheme. A man has an attack of asthma and starts to
swear furiously, with the precise intention of offending that
hypothetical God. He thinks that if, after all, God does exist,
every oath is a hammer blow on the nails of the cross, an
insult hurled at Him. Then God will avenge himself-His
normal procedure-and rage like the devil, inflict further
evils, send the man to hell. But, even though He turns the
                                                         21
     This Business of Living
world upside down, no-one can take away the insult He has
received, the hammering He has suffered. No one! That is
a fine consolation. And it certainly shows that, after all, this
God did not think of everything! Just consider I He is Lord
of All, the Supreme Autocrat, the Absolute. Man is as dung,
a mere nothing, and yet man has this power of irritating Him,
provoking Him to anger, spoiling an instant of His beatific
existence! This is truly "the best testimony we can give of
human dignity." Why ever didn't Baudelaire write a poem
on the subject?

7th December
         There is a good deal to be learned from the statement
that the secret of much great art lies in the handicaps, in the
form of rules, imposed on it by contemporary taste. These
rules of art, by setting a definite ideal for the artist to achieve,
prevent him from working aimlessly. The value paintings have
for us never lies in their observance of rules, of course, but,
leaving aside their differences in quality and purpose, in the
composition that grew under the artist's hands while he was
seeking to give what the rule or "taste" demands. Genius,
however, inflamed to white heat by this game of wits, this
attempt to achieve certain results said to be of value, tran-
scends the abstract, conventional limitations of those "tastes"
and in this state of ecstasy creates new forms. Without know-
ing it! And that is logical if you reflect that the secret of an
artistic creation eludes its creator until the very moment when
the solution strikes him, whereupon he transfers his interest
to some other point. That, in my view, is the function of
"intelligence" in art; the conscious application of it solely to
those contemporary standards that apply to the artist and his
period; standards that may then be fused by the white heat
of genius into an eruption of poetry.
         The artist labors with his brain under restrictions that
will be valueless in the eyes of posterity, but by so doing his
brain may create new intellectual realities in advance of
     22
                                                      1935
criticism. For example: the craze for the "conceit" among
the Elizabethans and the Shakespearean result-the image-
narrative. The preference for the concrete example in the
scientific and classical world and the consequent cosmic vision
of Lucretius.

15th December
         As for me, the composition of a poem comes about in
a way I should never have believed if experience had not
shown me it is so. I find myself ,turning over in my mind an
inchoate but significant idea; I murmur the thought to myself;
I embody it in an open rhythm, always the same. Different
words and different connecting links will color the new con-
densed, harmonious form and give it individuality. Now most
of the work is finished. All that remains is to revise those two,
three or four verses, which are usually already in a definite
though rudimentary form; twist and torment them, question
them, work out their various possible developments until I hit
on the right one. The poem must be evolved entirely from the
nucleus I spoke of, and each additional verse will define the
idea even more precisely by excluding false impressions, until,
finally, every potentiality inherent in my initial idea has been
examined, t eparated, and developed to the best of my ability.
As I go along, new rhythmic nuclei form under my pen, iden-
tifiable in the \<arious individual "images" of the presentation.
So, growing listl~ as my interest wanes, I come to the final
verse which is nearly always long and restful, surveying the
theme again from the beginning, mentioning all the kernels
of thought in tum and bringing them to a conclusion. What
must Stendhal's crystallization be? I have before me a com-
plex, rhythmic theme, full of color, movement, new ideas,
amplifications, in which the different moments of discovery
and transition-the nuclei, in short-merge and throw fresh
light on one another, ceaselessly kept in motion by the rhyth-
mic pulse that beats through the whole. I smoke on it and try
to think of something else, but I smile, stimulated by my secret.
                                                         23
    This Business of Living

16th December
        It may be by chance, or not, that while expounding
my method I have left on one side the image-narrative. I
speak of a suggestive situation: of nuclei, the blood pulse,
complex rhythms. And I say that each nucleus is an image in
the narrative.
        Whence it is clearly seen that the image-narrative was
nothing else but an attempt to give a technical interpretation
of my poetry; probably itself a metaphor; generally not at all
a definite program. That the various images that "merge and
throw fresh light on one another, may be the progressus of
each poem is a matter of fact, and leaves unexplored the
question of whether poetry may be a narration of images, or
whether it is not, rather, a play of images actuated by a prim-
itive nucleus of ethical and rhythmic importance. Would it
not be better to make some research into the basic meaning
 (ethical and rhythmical) of these poems? It is a fact that,
more often than not, a page of mine leaps from one image
to the next, grows intoxicated by the persistent rhythm, plays
with each idea and then reaches a conclusion (not necessarily
at the actual end of the work) in a sentence, a dictum that
throws light on the whole. But what if the nerve centers of
the composition were sayings and not myths? If, for example,
in the last Paesaggio the point did not lie in the horses and the
fugitive from home, but in the concluding line?
         I add that one of the most purely imaginative of my
poems-Grappa a settembre-does actually end with the
maxim that unifies all the images: "so the women will not be
the only ones to enjoy the morning.''
         Can it be that, till now, I have been subtly in error?

18th December
        But, then, if the point of my poems lies in their sum-
ming-up, whether dearly expressed or left in doubt, many
things I was still seeking, theoretically, I have already attained.
     24
                                                      1936
This, among other things, must be true beyond all doubt, if
it is true that I have already composed poems that are actu-
ally definitive. For instance, here is an ethical evaluation of
the things of this world; the grave importance of reasoning;
the nemesis awaiting mere sensuality. Here, in what I feared
might be simply a literary jest, is expressed the universality of
the inner world. Here, in a word, is everything! Today is
indeed a red-letter day f

2oth December
       Life without smoking is like the smoke without the
roast.
       Either police or criminals.

29th December
          Of the two things, writing poetry and studying, it is
the second that gives me greater and more constant comfort.
However, I do not forget that my pleasure in studying is
always with a view to writing poetry. But, fundamentally,
writing poetry is an ever-open wound whence the health-giving
life. blood drains away.



1936
 16th February
         Chance made me begin and end Lavorare stanca with
poems about Turin-more precisely on Turin as a place one
is leaving, then as the place to which one will return. One
could call the book San Stefano Belbo spreading into and
conquering Turin. This is one of many interpretations of the
poem. The countryside becomes the city, 'nature becomes
human life, the boy becomes a man. As I see it, "from San
Stefano to Turin" is a myth composed of every conceivable
significance of this book.
                                                        25
      This Business of Living
         It is equally curious that the poems composed after
the last Paesaggio all speak of some other subject, not Turin.
Chance seems to want to teach me to transform my own mis-
fortune into a drastic change in my poetry.
         To replace Turin, my favorite subject, will mean con-
structing another world, based, as always, on a very definite
period of suffering and silence. Because anything written
during these months of feverish idleness will never be anything
more than a "curiosity," so silence it shall be. During these
months, many former values lapse, many ingrained habits are
destroyed, and-a strange twist of fate-nothing comes to
take their place. I must learn to take this futile collapse, this
wearisome uselessness, as a blessed gift-such as only poets
 can receive-like a curtain before the play begins again. A
 period of self-questioning. I return to a state of childlike
 immaturity, with all its crudities and fits of despair. I again
 become the man who has not yet written Lavorare stanca, and
 spend hours biting my nails, despairing of mankind, despising
 light and nature, shaken by childish but agonizing fits of
 terror, as I did in my twenties. What world lies beyond that
 stormy sea I do not know, but every ocean has a distant shore,
 and I shall reach it. To have to endure all this a second time
 makes me sick of life.
          What is certain is that the poems written now-Parole,
  Altri tempi, Poetica, Mito, Semplicita, Un ricordo, Paternita,
  L'instinto, Tolleranza, U steddazzu-are akin in spirit to Dio
  caprone, Balletto, Pensieri di Dina, Celosia, Creazione, Dopo,
  A gonia and others I have forgotten: this will be a little book
  of Epaves, not the work of the future.
          What is to come will emerge only after long suffering,
  long silence. There must a period of feeling lost, bewildered,
  downcast, until I discover new values, a new world. The only
  advantage I shall have over my early twenties will be the skill
  I have acquired, my intuitive perception. The disadvantages,
  the months of suffering that must come first, the utter ex-
  haustion. The new work will begin only when my suffering
  is over. All I can do, at the moment, is to fix my mind on
      26
                                                      1936
aesthetic problems and try to find answers that will end my
agony.

17th February
         It is good to go back to Homer. What is the unity of
his poems? Each book has its own unity of sentiment, of atti-
tude, whereby it is read harmoniously, as well as physically,
as a whole. Odyssey, Book VIII: the pleasure of poetry, danc-
ing, rivalry; song, the light-hearted golden myth; a vindica-
tion of the nobility of life, in an oasis of pleasure and idyllic
tears. Odyssey, Book X: adventure, the succession of ob-
stacles, human weeping, the growing callousness. Iliad, Book
III: the beautiful woman, the war over her, and enervating
love. And so on. Did Homer, or the man we call Homer, think
of these definitions? I believe not, but it is a revealing thing
that the book wherein all Greece comes to life is composed in
this way, or, which comes to the same thing, that it can be
so interpreted.
         But let us be careful. The great fascination of the two
poems lies in the material unity of their characters, which
time after time flares up in a blaze of poetic fire. Which means
that even from the first example of great poetry, written in-
tentionally as such, we have this double play: a natural un-
fol~g of events (which could be doubled or halved without
adversely affecting the issue), and successive, fundamental,
poetic beams of light. The story and the poetry. The union of
the two elements is merely a matter of aptitude, of skill.
         This opens up the problem of whether it may not be
possible to recreate the miracle in separate poems; for the
very reason that the mind, in all its manifestations, strives
towards unity. To compose with inspiration, but with an un-
derlying skill that merges the various fragments together to
form a poem.
         The simplest way would seem to be to keep one and
the same protagonist element in the successive poems. And
this does not do, because then it would be better to make the
work a single narrative poem, which is obviously absurd.

                                                         17
    This Business of Living
         What remains is to seek out, in a group of poems, the
subtle, and almost always hidden, affinities between the sub-
ject (the material unity) and the clarification (spiritual unity) .
         Seeking them out means putting them to ourselves as
if composing them, and the methods are: accustoming oneself
to regard nature (the world of subjects) as a well-defined
whole, yielding judiciously to the echoes and appeals from the
preceding poems; in short, searching for the subjects in cold
blood, calculating their position, and at the same time sur-
rendering oneself intuitively and at white heat to the rhythmic
surge of the past. To say to oneself, when composing a poem:
I am discovering another little piece of the world that I al-
ready know in part; assisting oneself in this search by recalling
what is already known; investigating, in short, how far one's
own past is good and just. Never aspiring to take a leap into
the unknown, or being suddenly reborn one morning. Using
up the cigarette butts of the night before and convincing one-
self that time, now and later, is only a fixation. But, above all,
never doing as the serpent does, never shedding one's skin: for
what really belongs to a man, in life, except what he has
already lived? But keeping a balanced view, because what
has a man to live for, except what he is not yet living?
         Another interesting point in Homer lies in the appel-
latives and the lines that recur; everything, in short, that con-
stitutes in each case a lyric nerve center of incontestable value,
and that, each time, is repeated identically, or nearly so, with-
out taking the trouble to recall the original inspiration. (And
it is no excuse for this to point out the truth that he is using
poetic language, consecrated jargon, phrases that, by use, have
become mere expressions, canonical crystallizations of a senti-
ment. It may be so, in fact, it is: but on me they have a
 different effect, and I have every right to discuss them as
 though they were Homer's deliberate choice. His intention
 does not count; what counts is what I see in them, I, the
reader.)
         I believe, therefore, that this represents a very impor-
tant method of technique, whereby the individual books obtain
     28
                                                       1936
a part of their unity. I do not know whether every reader has
noticed that each book is characterized by a special group of
appellations and recurring lines that apply to it -alone. It
would seem that the materialism of certain actions, certain
figures, certain repetitions, is in this way given the semblance
of poetry-even if only mnemonic or conventionalized-to dis-
guise the inevitable paucity of invention. That, in short, the
first Greek may have felt the opposition between narration and
poetry, and forced himseH-naively, as it seems to our taste--
to sublimate it in this way. It goes without saying, that when
changing from one book to another he also changed-but not
invariably, of course-the tone of the repetitions, according to
the individual colorization, or, if we like, the basic conception,
of each book.
         In conclusion, one way of obtaining unity is the recur-
rence of certain lyrical formulae that recreate vocabulary,
transforming an appellation or a phrase into a mere word. Of
all the ways of inventing language (the work of the poet), this
is the most convincing and, when one thinks of it, the only
real one. And it explains why, in all that part of the work
where similar formulae recur, there circulates an air of unity:
it is the same man-the inventor-who is speaking.

23rd February
         The more I think of it the more remarkable it seems to
me, the way Homer achieved unity between books. At one
stage, when everything would seem to presuppose a bent
towards uniformity, he reveals instead a zest for weaving a
brightly colored piece of tapestry, complete in itseH-the study
of a differentiated unity. He is, in reality, a writer of stories
conditioned in different ways (by love, heroic passion, war,
idylls, homecoming, the world of pleasure, social delights, re-
venge, anger and so on) . In this he is like his peers, Dante
and Shakespeare: powerful, fabulous creators who delight in
detail keenly perceived and embroidered; who breathe in the
whole of life with their regular, daily, perfect respiration.
Above all, these are not the men for the unexpected, irritating
                                                          29
       This Business of Living
exclamation that breaks out at any experience, takes it as
having a hidden meaning, works it up into a sensation; but
clear-sighted observers meticulously describing what they see;
calm, imperturbable instigators of variety, subtly skilled in ex·
plaiting experience, cutting it into facets and shapes as if in
sport, ending by taking its place. Men of the utmost astute·
ness, with nothing in the least naive about them.
          Understood in this way, these creative geniuses seem
well equipped for that task requiring majestic and most subtle
skill, an astuteness essential if the gulf between narrative and
poetry is to be satisfactorily bridged. They are marvelous at
compromise, the wholly social and prudent art of experience.
Instead of deriving grandeur from the violence of feeling, they
draw it from the art of knowing how to live. This biographical
ba'.lis is the only thing that lyric-writers and creators have in
common. But while, for the lyric-writers, everything is ex-
hausted in this violence, for the others, the masters, knowing
how to live is an art that simply helps in fashioning the human
material, set free to be itself, purified, complete, made avail-
able for all men. Thus these great ones merge invisibly into
their work, while the lyric-writers distort themselves in theirs.

~8th  February
        There is a parallel between this past year of my life
and a certain aspect of poetry. My keenest sufferings were not
when I was keyed up to great excitement, but during those
furtive moments that lay between. In the same way, the unity,
the coherence of a poem, does not depend on the climax but
on the subtle inter-reaction of all the creative touches. Which
means that unity owes less to plot construction than to an apt
handling of slight, almost illusory indications appearing again
and again in different guise.
        How did she hurt me? Was it the day when she raised
her arm to wave at someone across the street? The day when
no one came to open the door to me, and then she appeared
with her hair all ruffled? The day when she was whispering
       30
                                                       1936
with him on the embankment? The thousands of times she
made me hurry here and there?
        But this has nothing to do with aesthetics; this is grief.
I wanted to count my memories of happy moments, and all
I can remember is the pangs I suffered.
        Never mind, they serve the same purpose. My love
story wi .h her is not made up of dramatic scenes but of mo-
ments filled with the subtlest perceptions. So should a poem
be. But it is agony.

15th March
       Today my iplprisonment ends.

                         *      *     *
lOth  April
        When a man is in such a state as I am, there is nothing
left for him to do but examine his conscience.
        I have no grounds for discarding my own firm con-
viction that whatever happens to a .man is conditioned by his
whole past. In short, it is deserved. Evidently, I must have been
an utter fool to find myself at this point.
        First, moral irresponsibility. Have I really ever asked
myself what I ought to do according to conscience? I have
always followed sentimental, hedonistic impulses. Of that there
is no question. Even my period as a woman-hater ( 1930-1934)
was in essence self-indulgent. I wanted to avoid becoming in-
volved and the pose pleased me. How spineless that attitude
was soon became apparent. And even where my work is con-
cerned, have I ever been anything but a hedonist? I enjoyed
working feverishly by fits and starts, under the spur of am-
bition, but I was afraid, too; afraid of getting tied up. I have
never really worked and in fact I have no skill in any occu..
pation.
        Another fault is quite apparent. I have never been a
single-minded, easygoing sort of fellow who enjoys his pleas-
ures without a second thought. I haven't the nerve. I have
                                                          31
     This Business of Living
always flattered myseH with the illusion that I am a man of
moral sensibility because I spend delicious moments--that's
the right term-inventing conscientious scruples without pluck.
enough to solve them by action. I have no wish to resurrect
the complacency that at one time I felt at this moral coward-
ice from aesthetic motives-hoping it meant my career would
be that of a genius-but still I have not yet passed tho:tt stage.
         Having reached such utter abjectness, morally, the
thought occurs to me that there should be material abjectness,
too. How fitting it would be if, for example, my shoes were in
holes!
         Only so can I explain my actual suicidal urge in life.
I know that I am forever condemned to think of suicide when
faced with no matter what difficulty or grief. It terrifies me.
My basic principle is suicide, never committed, never to be
committed, but the thought of it caresses my sensibility.
         The terrible thing is that whatever remains to me, now,
is not enough to put me right, because I have already found
myself in this identical state, in the past, but have never found
in it any help towards moral well-being. Nor shall I be reso-
lute enough to take that step this time. That much is clear.
         Yet, unless infatuation deceives me, and I do not think
it does, I have found the way of salvation. In spite of all my
instability, a certain lady managed to make me conform to
discipline, to self-sacrifice, simply by giving herself to me. By
so doing, she raised me to an intuition of new tasks, made them
take shape before my eyes. Because, left to myself, as I know
from experience, I am convinced I shall not succeed. Made
one flesh and one destiny with her, I should have succeeded.
Of that I am equally certain. Even because of my cowardice,
she would have become a spur in my flank.
         Instead, what has she done ! Perhaps she does not know
it, or, if she does, it means nothing to her. And that is fair
enough, for she is herself, with her own past that marks out
her future.
         But this is what she has done. I have had a love affair,
during which I have been judged and pronounced unworthy
     32
                                                      1936
to continue. In the face of this cataclysm, I feel not only the
pangs of a lover, agonizing though they are; not only the
break-up of our association, serious as it is; but in my mind
the whole thing becomes confused with a sensation of being
hammered by life, a feeling I have not known since 1934·
Away with aesthetics and poses! Away with genius! Away
with the lot! Have I ever in my life done anything that was
not the action of a crack-brained fool?
        A fool in the banal, incurable sense of the word. A
man who has no idea how to live, who has not developed
morally, a futile dolt, propping himself up with thoughts of
suicide, but not committing it.

 2oth April
         Let us see whether, even from this, we can dig out a
lesson in technique.
         There is the usual one, elementary but not yet fully
grasped. It is supremely voluptuous to abandon oneself to
sincerity, losing all sense of self in the contemplation of the
absolute; but-and here's the point-it is voluptuous, and
therefore to be avoided. That, of all things, should be clear
to me from now on: all the rubs I have endured had their
origin in my voluptuous abandonment to the absolute, the
unknown, the inconsistent. I do not yet understand what the
tragedy of existence may be-l am not yet fully convinced-
but this point is so clear. I must overcome this luxurious in-
dulgence and stop rega1ding states of soul as an end in
themselves.
         For a poet, that is difficult. Or possibly very easy. A
poet delights in submerging himself in a state of mind and
enjoying it-that is his way of escape from tragedy. But a
poet should never forget that, for him, a state of mind is less
than nothing. All that counts is the poetry he will write. This
effort of purposeful restraint is his taste of tragedy.
         The need for living tragically and not voluptuously is
proved by how much I have suffered so far, and suffered
uselessly. It has opened my eyes to read again the poems I
                                                        33
    This Business of Living
wrote in '27. I am utterly downcast to find in that sloppy,
Neapolitan naivete the same thoughts, even the same words,
as I have written in this past month. Nine years have passed,
and is my response to life just as childish? And this virility
that seemed my special characteristic, hard won through years
of work, is that so meaningless?
         Such inadequacy is a fault that bears less heavily upon
poetry than on any other art. Indeed, poetry has taught me
to master myseH, pull myself together, see things clearly; po"etry
has made something of me, in the most practical sense of the
term. The fault lies in daydreaming, a very different thing
and the enemy of all good art. My need is to avoid responsi-
bilities, to feel things without paying for them.
          There is not only a similarity but an actual parallel
between a life given over to voluptuousness and the writing of
little isolated poems, one every so often, with nothing to link
them together. It becomes a habit to live by fits and starts,
without development and without principles.
          The lesson is this: to build in art, or build in life,
barush sensuousness from art, as from life; exist tragically.
 (That does not forbid you, of course, to get randy now and
then, or scribble a silly little sonnet or novelette. Indeed, you
need to. Only remember that you don't have to upset heaven
and earth just to write a novel- or arrange a party.)
          To add an explanatory postscript, it is human for me
to let off steam and think that no one has ever treated me so
badly. Not as far as sex is concerned-sex is a pain in the
ass--but for the other reason that this time I was intending
to "pay," to respond, to fetter and limit myself, in short to
turn sensual delight into tragedy. Fortunately what happened
was the opposite: so we shall see whether my virility can re-
cover. That's all right, but still it was a very dirty trick. And,
thinking it over again between ourselves, deliberately exclud-
ing every voluptuous day dream and passion, who can say
whether or not the torment I suffered was primarily due to
the fact that I resented the injustice of it, the malice behind
the action? And isn't this, too, a lesson in the technique of
poetry?
     34
                                                       1936

22nd April
        The truth is that nothing of the world has ever yet
penetrated my spirit, or brought home to me the fact of the
dismal, everlasting skeleton that lies under my flesh. I have
enjoyed colors, perfumes, caressing gestures, and found them
satisfying, inspiring, recuperative. I have joked as one does
with friends, and been happy alone.
         My words have not really expressed thoughts, only
sensations. My portraits were pictures, not dramatic presenta-
tions. I would decide on a subject-a figure, for example--
and ponder over it until what I produced was a transfiguration
to my own satisfaction. I simplified the world into a banal
gallery depicting acts of power or pleasure. In these pages
there is the spectacle of life, not life itself. I must begin all
over again.

24th April
        The frenzy for self-destruction has to be felt. I am not
talking of a suicide. People like ourselves--in love with life,
enjoying the unexpected and the pleasures of human inter-
course--cannot get as far as suicide except through same im-
prudence. And then suicide seems like one of those mythical
acts of heroism, those affirmations, in fables, of the dignity of
Man in the face of Destiny, that make interesting statues but
have nothing to do with us.
        The self-destroyer is a different type, more despairing
but more practical. He has a compulsion to discover every
fault, every baseness in his own nature; then he views these
tendencies so leniently that they become mere nothings. He
looks for more, enjoys them, finds them intoxicating. He is
more sure of himself than any conqueror of the past, and he
knows that the thread connecting him with tomorrow, with
the potentialities of life, with a prodigious future, is a stronger
cable-when it comes to the ultimate strain-than any faith
or integrity.
        The self-destroyer is, above all, a comedian and his
own patron. He never misses an opportunity to listen to him-
                                                           ]5
       This Business of Living
 self and prove himself. He is an optimist, hoping for every-
 thing from life. He cannot endure solitude. But he lives in
 constant peril that one day, all unawares, he will be seized
 with a craze for creating something or setting everything in
 proper order. Then he suffers unceasingly and may even kill
 himself.
          Consider this point carefully: nowadays, suicide is just
 a way of disappearing. It is carried out timidly, quietly, and
 falls fiat. It is no longer an action, only a submission.
          Who knows whether an optimistic suicide will come
back to the world again?
          To express an inward tragedy in an art form, and so
purge himseH of it, is something that can be achieved only by
an artist who, even while living through his tragedy, was al-
 ready putting forth sensitive feelers and weaving his delicate
threads of construction; who in short, was already incubating
his creative ideas. There can be no such thing as living through
the storm in a state of frenzy and then liberating pent-up
emotions in a work of art as an alternative to suicide. How
true that is can be seen from the fact that artists who really
have killed themselves because of some tragedy that happened
to them are usually trivial songsters, lovers of sensation, who
never, in their lyrical effusions, even hint at the deep cancer
that is gnawing them. From which one learns that the only
way to escape from the abyss is to look at it, measure it, sound
its depths and go down into it.
          To suffer an injustice gives one a bracing shock-like
a winter morning. It restores to the highest pitch our exhila-
ration and joy of living, gives us back a sense of our impor-
tance in relation to things, flatters us, while to suffer from
mere mischance is humiliating. I have experienced it, and
wish the injustice, the ingratitude, had been even greater.
That's living, and to learn it at the age of twenty-eight is
hardly precocious.
          Speaking of humility. Only very rarely does one suffer
a real out-and-out injustice. Our own actions are so tortuous.
In general, it always turns out that we are a little at fault
     36
                                                         1936
ourselves, and then-good-bye to the feeling of a winter's
morning.
         A little at fault? It's all our fault and there's no getting
away from it. Always.
         The knife thrust may be dealt you heedlessly or in jest
by someone who lacks perception, but that does not lessen your
sufferings. Rather it makes them more excruciating, by lead-
ing you to brood over the casualness of the blow and your
own responsibility for not having foreseen it. I imagine it
would be a comfort to know that the one who wounded you
was stricken with remorse, that she attached some importance
to the matter? Such comfort cannot come from anything ex-
cept one's need not to be alone, the desire to tighten the bonds
between one's true self and other people. Furthermore, if her
remorse was for having hurt, not me in particular, but only
a man considered as a fellow creature, would I wish for such
remorse? Then the essential thing is that I myself, not the man
in me, should be given recognition, compassion and love.
         And does it not open the field to another, long-lasting
torture, remembering that she who wounded me is not un-
thinking, heedless or flippant? Remembering that she is usu-
ally serious-minded, understanding and highly strung? and
that it is only as far as I am concerned that she takes things
lightly?
         Not only does she not regret having hurt me, as an
individual, but she feels pleased about it, precisely because
I am the one involved. That would be nothing more than a
method of humanizing the situation, and I am opposed to
doing so. Better and better.

25th April
      Today, nothing.

26th April
       There is, too, the type of man who, the more he is
cast down and should be thinking only of getting on his feet
again, thinks of flying and finds exaltation in that thought.
                                                             37
     This.Business of Living
That, primarily, arises from a love of contrasts and the habit
of self-contemplation. Only a man whose vice is considering
himself as another person-a most important person-can,
while suffering or preoccupied, grow exhilarated, instead,
at the thought of pleasure and freedom.
         A man who has lived with an ideal for twelve years-
especially a secret ideal, inevitably finds his character affected
by it. Of all the monstrous things in the world, the habit of
following an ideal is the ugliest. One can recover from any·
thing else, but not from that. It may be possible to change
the direction of the ideal, but nothing more.
         How fortunate it is that of all spiritual habits-passion,
distortion, complacency, serenity and so on-the only one that
endures is calm. It will return.
         One must go very gently when communicating psy-
chological discoveries about potent forms of depravity to
someone whom one does not know to be that sort of person,
for the first victim of such a course will be the well-meaning
discoverer. The old story of Perillos and the bull.
         The man who lets a woman know her potential in-
fluence, will be the first she will make a cuckold. That is
mathematically certain. That,s it exactly, mathematicaUy.
         When a woman wants to make a fool of a man, what
better way can she find than to take him out of his own
environment, dress him up in ridiculous clothes, expose him
to unfamiliar circumstances, and every now and then find
other things to do herself, things that the man does not know
how to do? Not- only does she make a fool of him in the eyes
of the world, but, and this is important to a woman, the
most rational animal in existence, she convinces herself that
it suits him to be a fool, and so her conscience is clear. With
aptitude and experience she (incredibly) gets to the stage of
being able to prearrange facts and events to her liking, without
compromising her own principles of ethical behavior.

27th April
        He says: "She told me, one day, how she would have
treated me. We were at that uneasy stage when nothing had
      38
                                                      1936
happened, but was likely to. I made her talk about her past,
so eager was I to know all I could about her, to amplify my
daydreams.
        "She was talking of a nice young man who made a pass
at her in a train. She described him as common and persistent,
and without much trouble she infatuated him. With words
and actions. (She went on a trip with me, too.) Then she
broke off, giving him a false name.
        "And the young man had written asking her to marry


28th April
         "I notice you like to have things clear, sir, a credit to
your good taste, I'm sure. But you should remember, sir, that
once things are clear, they are soon digested and then appetite
returns. Much better to chew something solid, trying to find a
succulent morsel in it somewhere. That way, you make hope
last longer."
         Why worry? rm back as I was in '29, writing idle
poetry, troubled because I cannot work, alone and unhappy
in the midst of life, wandering aimlessly, infuriated by all I see
going on around me. What is missing? My seven vanished years?
         Bah ! Has youth ever counted for anything, in the sort
of work I qo? And if those seven years were not lost, if they
had turned out well, if, that is, I had composed lasting poetry,
worked with satisfaction, married and settled down, enjoyed
 watching the spectacle of the general public-if that's how
 things had gone, should I be any better off? Would it have
 been worth the trouble? Should I be any happier, sitting here
 now at this table?
         And, if you reply that I should be happy to be tied
 down, to have responsibilities, isn't that a pointless thing to
 say, since a man can have responsibilities all the time, if he
 wants them?
         Then am I only sorry about her? The woman who
 made a fool of me? But, if nothing else has changed, what
 more does she stand for than a commonplace, sentimental
 delusion?

                                                          39
     This Business of Living
        Young man, stop brooding over losing her as if it
were a great disaster. It is no such thing. We are as we were
before; we have burned up seven years and enjoyed some
happy times. We must begin again, but without whining, and
remember that there is no reason why we should not do the
same again with another seven years. But who told you life
was to be enjoyed? My boy, we still have childish illusions.
        But, if it is true that this sort of thing happens to all
men, how is it that old men do not seem overwhelmed, driven
crazy, broken by life; that, on the contrary, they all look so
tranquil?
        The only understandable thing is why dead men rot,
with all that poison inside them.

Ist May
        That poetry is born of privation is confirmed by the
fact that Greek poetry about the heroes came about when
their descendants were driven out of the countries where
those heroes lay entombed. ( Cf. Psyche, I, p. 43·)

5th May
         Sin is not one action rather than another, but a whole
maladjusted way of life. What is a sin for one, is not for
another. The same things-hatred, making a fool of some-
one, ill-treating them, humbling oneself or being arrogant-
are sins for some men, not for others.
        To have sinned means that you are convinced that, in
some mysterious way, what you have done will bring mis-
fortune on you in the future; that it has broken some mys-
terious law of harmony, and is a link in a chain of past and
future discords. Living is like working out a long addition sum,
and if you make a mistake in the first two totals you will
never find the right answer. It means involving oneseH in a
complicated chain of circumstances.

gth May
         Even the comfort that comes from self-abasement, is
it a form of voluptuousness or a valid principle?
    40
                                                       1936
         That is to say, do we humble ourselves in order to
gain some reaction from the experience, making it a pretext
for a gratuitous self-regard (without any moral obligations),
or to hew out a new vein of ethical behavior, to seek out, in
short, a conscientious level of duties?
         That there can be a sort of pleasure in self-humiliation,
is a fact. To decide whether one is enjoying it voluptuously
or tragically seems impossible.
         Fundamentally, since I have found nothing against
voluptuousness except that it ruins the man who indulges in it
 (makes him "suffer uselessly"), that would be sufficient to
clarify the question of whether self-humiliation makes one
suffer, uselessly or to a lesser degree. And in my own case,
how can I get out of my normal habit of testing the legitimacy
of whatever state I am in by whether it is productive or sterile,
creatively? Since, certainly, that standard is false or, at least,
inadequate, granted that not everyone can work creatively.
For all men, the question of whether suffering is useful or
useless must be determined in relation to their whole existence.
And if the man concerned happens also to be a creator, that
has no bearing at all on his conscience. We are talking now
of essentials that get right down to his very roots, deeper than
his occupation, class or nationality. But if one takes away this
and takes away that, what is left to make one the slave of
duties? So I must not exclude my own state as a creator and
burrow in the cellar to try and find the cornerstone, but must
simply reflect that, besides being a creator, I am also a man,
a man who is unemployed, with no political faith, immature
and a good many other things that escape me. A fine job
it would be to examine the effect of self-humiliation on all
those states and find the highest common divisor! And not
only in the present, but in all my past. Because, remember,
sin is not one action rather than another, but a whole existence
maladjusted.
        Then is my self-humiliation a sin?
        An idea. Just as I could argue about aesthetics only
when I had a cluster of my own poems in front of me, and
dissected the problems they contained (seen, too, that every-
                                                         41
     This Business of Living
thing needed to be started afresh), so, now, I shall have to put
before me a number of my own ethical actions, think about
them and decide which I can do again, and which not; deter-
mine their recurring motives, if any (without doubt there are
some), and all the rest. The difficulty is to isolate these actions,
work on them as I do on every single poem. But, after all,
that will be nothing new. It's a little piece of work I have
often done already.

16th May
         That the public plays a necessary part in the produc-
tion of a work, is beyond question. Many works are born,
nevertheless, without that manifest circle, anxious, unsettled,
argumentative, which makes great art.
         But their public was not lacking. Simply, the author
imagined it, created it (which means he defined, chose and
loved it) . In general, the ancients, up to the period of roman-
ticisrn, had their circle materially defined; the moderns are
distinguished by the absence of such a circle. The ancients
revealed their greatness by their instinctive understanding of
their true public, other than pedants; the moderns reveal
theirs, above all, in the choice and creation of readers they
know how to make for themselves.
         Note, though, that it is false to think that a writer can
make this creation of his own public progressive. That is how,
if ever, a material public is created, the concern of the editor
or publisher. But the author's true public must have been
envisaged, complete, from his first work.

6th September
        I have discovered a type of man who regards moral
responsibilities with deadly seriousness. He instantly takes the
view that a moral principle should be upheld even in the face
of prison, death, or torture on the wheel, and, terrified by
such an obligation, he does not dare to define and obey his
own moral principle. Such a man is, in fact, self-indulgent,
and has no principles. ( Cf. 2oth April.)
     42
                                                       1936

   sth September
    I

         Among the signs that warn me that my youth is over,
the greatest is my realization that literature no longer really
 interests me. I mean that I no longer open books with that
 eager, anxious hope of discovering spiritual things which, in
spite of everything, I once felt. I do read, and wish I could
 read still more, but now I do not welcome with enthusiasm,
 as once I did, the varied experiences to be found in books, or
fuse them into a bright, pre-poetic mental tumult. The same
 thing happens to me when I stroll through Turin: I no longer
 feel aware of the city as a romantic, symbolic goad to creative
effort. "That's been done already" is my reaction, every time.
         Mter taking accurately into account the various knocks
 I have had, all my periods of fury and lassitude and lying
fallow, it remains clear that I no longer feel life as a discovery
 (and consequently poetry that much less), but rather as a
cold material for speculation and analysis, as a matter for
duties. This is what my life consists of now: politics, practical
affairs, all those things one can enjoy from books, but books
cannot inspire love, as does the hope of creation.
         Now, even from boyhood, I was methodical about
ethical matters: once I had found my place as an insatiable
seeker I made it my life and brought it to fruition in creation.
Now that I have laid aside in earnest this will to create, I
perceive that it does not even suffice me to be alive.
         It is a grave dilemma: have I been wasting my time
till now by concentrating on poetry, or is my present state a
prelude to the creation of something deeper, more vital, than
before?

I4th September
       I agree with Berg1 that racialism and the natural
goodness of man are political myths to be judged by what they
achieve, but it is dishonest to excuse the recognized philo-
sophical weakness of racialism by the fact that, now, we have
1   Bergson? Ed.

                                                         43
     This Business of Living
also recognized the philosophical weakness of natural good-
ness. For a myth, to be historically sound, must be believed
in its time; must be the last word of the critics of that period.
Such was natural goodness in the 17oo's; racialism is not so
in the 1goo's.

15th September
         If I try to balance up my poetical work, I do not find
in it all these advantages. Leaving aside the glory or discredit
- I examine myself as if I had published nothing-! find
that the world has now lost for me its air of enchantment,
since many things that pleased and satisfied me are now
extinguished in the printed page that reduced them to ashes.
That realization, by showing me the entirely imaginary nature
of my transports and outbursts, my loves and attachments,
has rendered them null and void. I explain: it is not out of
ambition that I am tormented by my love of novelty; it is
very clear to me that those discoveries had no more than a
pre-poetic significance and therefore, once they were trans-
muted into poetry, they had fufilled their function.
         That was why I maintained that poetic genius ought
to be extremely fertile and last as long as life. Its spirit should
never cease making discoveries to be expressed in poetry, for,
if it stops it reveals, by the mere fact of doing so, that those
few things it has produced did not stem from a temperament
born to discover, but were mere sentimental fancies mistaken
for pre-poetic discoveries.
         I do not yet know whether I am a poet or a senti-
mentalist, but one thing is certain. These months of anguish
are the decisive test. If, as I hope, even the greatest seekers
after truth have passed through months like this, then the joy
of achievement is dearly bought. Life avenges itself in no
uncertain manner if anyone usurps its functions. The agony
of composition-that famous torment-is nothing, compared
to the mental anguish of having finished composing and not
knowing what to do next.
         Uvy-Bruhl's book, Mythologie Primitive, allows one
     44
                                                      1936
to suppose that the primitive mentality thinks of reality as a
continuous interchange of qualities and essences, like an ever-
lasting ebb and flow in which a man may become a banana
or a bow or a wolf and vice versa (but the bow could not
become a wolf, for example). Then poetry (images) is hom
as a simple description of this reality (the god is not like the
shark, but is the shark), and as a matter of anthropocentric
interest.
         In short, the images (and that is what concerns me!)
would not be a play of expression, but positive description.
In its origins, of course. As for anthropocentricism, I never
doubted it.

2nd October
         Finally, something positive. My hatred of noisy crowds,
my disgust at spiteful actions, the remorse I feel for my con-
ventional hesitation and timidity in the past, all show that I
do not lack self-respect and a sense of discretion, qualities
that have a certain dignity. Even my searching after poetic
truth means the same thing.
        Today, however, I much regret that, until now, I have
always ignored formal rules of deportment and have not
acquired my own style of social behavior but have acted at
random, being casual or off-hand, according to my mood and
so committing endless faux pas.
        Why do women in general have better manners than
men? Because they depend for everything upon the formal
effect they produce, while men act and think. I must become
more ladylike.

13th October
        Balzac exposed the great city of Paris as a hotbed of
mystery, and his appeal is always to our curiosity. His muse
is an urge for finding out. He is never comic or tragic, he is
eurious. He involves himself in a maze of intricate detail with
the air of a man who scents a mystery, promises to unearth it
for you, and goes on to reveal the whole mechanism of it,
                                                       45
     This Business of Living
 piece by piece, with eager, pungent, triumphant gusto. See
 how he makes his approach to new characters, listing all that
is odd about them, defining, commenting, bringing out their
inconsistencies, assuring you of marvels to come. His assess-
ments, observations, tirades, the words he uses, are not psy-
chological truths, but suspicions, tricks of a prosecuting counsel,
punches aimed at the mystery that, by God, he must solve.
When there comes a pause in the mystery hunt, early in the
book or in the middle (never at the end, for by then all the
mystery is explained), Balzac holds forth about the baffling
perplexities of his plot with lyrical enthusiasm, revealing his
deep understanding of human relationships and the workings
of men's minds. Then he is wonderful. Look at the opening
pages of Ferragus or the beginning of the second part of
Splendeurs et miseres des courtisanes. He is sublime. He fore-
shadows Baudelaire.

28th December
         One should be able to see what is real from a prison
cell, where a man has nothing left to do but think. His com-
pany would be only the dregs of society. His occupation,
looking at a wall, hearing a voice, breathing the air of heaven.
Any man (since any man may find himself in such a place
and there is always someone there, even if he is someone else),
can get down to the basic substratum of life and examine it
in real earnest. Living consists simply of adding various
embellishments to this eternal reality.
         So one discovers that almost everything one does in
life is a pastime, a diversion. The prisoner therefore makes up
his mind that, if he ever gets out, he will live like a recluse,
savoring his favorite pastime and obtaining the utmost satis-
faction he can from it-a resolve all prisoners make.
         The point is that reality is a prison, where, in just the
same way, one vegetates and always will. All the rest-
thought, action-is just a pastime, mental or physical. What
counts then, is to come to grips with reality. The rest can go.
    46
                                                            1937
    H you are alone, as once you were, you cannot even indulge
    in the pastime of thoughts and words, but must be like a tree,
    doing nothing but living. Here (I repeat) is the drama: avoid
    thinking aloud; stop regarding life as a pastime; mourn all
    the rest in silence; and find exaltation in raging against reality.
    Inward segregation is always possible for any man.



    1937
8th January
       Mistakes are always initial.

 13th January
          I vecchi e i giovanr is a mistake as a novel because,
 crammed with antecedent events and social or political ex-
 planations that should have made of it a moral poem with
 ideas about the structure of life and dramatic development,
 it is, instead, broken up into figures whose inner law is soli-
 tude, and makes each one of them end up--with the logic of
 solitude-in madness, apathy, suicide or unheroic death. They
 are all warped by some eccentricity, some inner habit of
 thought, that tends to express itseH in monologue or in little
peculiarities.
          The story lacks a rhythm of alternating prose passages
and dialogue; and there is no semblance of solitude except
for each character considered separately; the epic quality of
the world of lonely people is missing. Furthermore, each
individual character is built up from the outside, composed
of antecedents, analyses and outlets in which there is no
harmony; one feels that the author sacrifices, with calculated
logic, many things in order to justify the moments when the
lonely one reaches a climax and expresses himself, sometimes
very effectively.
1   A novel by Pirandello, published in 1 913. Ed.

                                                             47
     This Business of Living
        The proof that it was essentially composed in cold
blood lies in the style, lucid, as polished as glass, even though
now and then it has colorful, passionate outbursts. And those,
too, are calculated, carefully reasoned.

17th January
        The more a man becomes involved in an emotion, the
more do chance events, impersonal in themselves, turn out to
his disadvantage. The very fact that they are impersonal leads
him into false conclusions, so tense and eager is he. An
ambitious man will suffer because some celebrity failed to
recognize· and speak to him; wishing to enliven his conver-
sation with an evangelical type of man, he will hint at his
own conscientious scruples, scruples that make him look a
fool in the opinion of a sturdy individualist who unluckily
overhears them. Envy, ambition's reverse side, lies at the root
of every pang he suffers. He finds it intolerable that a thing
can happen impersonally, by chance, without human inter-
vention.
        Any fervor, no matter what, brings with it the tendency
to feel there is a predetermined law in life, a law which
punishes those who abuse or ignore that particular fervor.
A state of passion-even the intoxication of absolute self-
determination-can so change the very structure and spirit
of one's universe that any set·back seems to imply a break-
down of the vital balance of that all-pervading passion. Then,
depending on his temperament, a man feels either that he
has gone too far in his zeal or fallen short. Usually he feels
he has been deliberately punished by the law of that passion,
and of the universe. Which is as much as to say that every
form of zeal or passion brings with it a superstitious conviction
of having to face a day of reckoning. Even the zeal of a
disbeliever.

28th January
         Any misfortune is either due to error, not bad luck,
or it arises out of our own culpable inadequacy. And since an
     48
                                                       1937
error is our own fault, we should not blame anyone but
ourselves for any misfortune. So now you can cheer up.

18th June
        I.A rabble-a priest-speeches (Afternoon) .
       2. Flight-the street-the sound of a whistle (Dusk).
       3· Investigation-the priest at prayer.
       4· The woman and the priest (In the dead of night) .
       5· (Morning) Investiture-Return.

3rd August
         A woman, unless she is an idiot, sooner or later meets
a piece of human wreckage and tries to rescue him. She some-
times succeeds. But a woman, unless she is an idiot, sooner or
later finds a sane, healthy man and makes a wreck of him. She
always succeeds.

27th September
       The reason why women have always been "bitter as
death," sinks of iniquity, faithless jades, Delilahs, is, funda-
mentally, simply this. A man, unless he is a eunuch, can
always achieve ejaculation with any woman. But women
hardly ever experience this joyous liberation, and then not
with just any man, often not with the man they love, simply
because they love him. If once they know it, they dream of
nothing else, and because of their (legitimate) longing for this
moment of ecstasy they are ready to commit any wickedness.
They are driven to it. It is the fundamental tragedy of life,
and a man who ejaculates too soon had better never have
been born. It is a failing that makes suicide worth while.

30th September
        The only women worth the trouble of marrying are
those a man cannot trust enough to marry.
        But this is the most terrible thing: the art of living
consists in not letting our loved ones know the pleasure it gives
us to be with them, otherwise they leave us.
                                                         49
     This Business of Living

31st October
        One stops being a child when one realizes that telling
one's trouble does not make it better.

6th November
        The worst thing a suicidal type of man can do is not
killing himself, but thinking of it and not doing it. Nothing
is more abject than the state of moral disintegration that
inspires the idea-the habitual idea-of suicide. Responsibility,
conscience, strength of mind, all drift aimlessly about in that
dead sea, submerged or brought to the surface again by any
chance current.
        The real failure is not the man who does not succeed
in great things-who ever has?-but in little things, making
a home, keeping a friend, keeping a woman happy, earning
his living like anyone else. He is the most miserable failure.

9th November
        The repetition in my new poems is not for reasons of
harmony but of construction. Notice how the key phrases in
them are always in the present, and the others converge
towards it even when they are in the past. I mean that in
these poems I happened to seize upon an actual reality, not
narrative but evocative, in which something takes place in
the imagery, takes place now, in so far as the image is at this
moment being elaborated by the thought, is seen to be in
action, thrusting its roots down into reality.
        The word or phrase that is repeated is nothing else
but the mainspring of this image, constructed from top to
bottom like a scaffolding, the pivot enabling the imagination
to revolve on itself and sustain itself like a gyroscope which
exists only in the present, while it is in action, and then falls
and becomes just a bit of iron.

13th November
      With petty, self-important men, there always comes a
moment when you can make them pay for_ their greatness by
     50
                                                        1937
saying to them: "You are an important man, so I will not
venture to trust my life to you."
         When a man mourns for someone who has played him
false, it is not for love of her, but for his own humiliation at
not having deserved her trust.

x6th November
        Surely all his destiny is revealed when a child of three,
while being dressed, wonders anxiously how he will manage to
dress hirnseH when he is grown up, he who does not know how?
        To possess something or someone, we must not sur-
render ourselves to it completely or lose our heads; in short,
we must remain superior to it. But it is a law of life that we
can enjoy only what we can give ourselves up to completely.
Those who invented the love of God were pretty shrewd;
there is nothing else we can possess and enjoy at the same time.

I 7th November
         Every woman longs for a man friend to confide in, to
fill the empty hours when the one she loves is away; she
insists that this friend does not affect her love for the absent
one; she takes offense if he makes any demand that might
interfere with her love; but if that friend grows cautious and
keeps his words and glances under control, with the sole
object of saving himseH further suffering, then the woman-
any woman-immediately does her best to increase her hold
upon him so that she can watch him suffer. And she does not
even realize she is doing it.
         Remember, writing poetry is like making love: one
will never know whether one's own pleasure is shared.
         It is amazing that the woman you love may tell you
her days are empty and unbearable, but yet she has no wish
to know what yours are like.
         The recompense for having suffered so is that then
one dies like a dog.
         Great poets are rare, like great lovers. Flights of fancy,
frenzy, dreams, are not enough; one needs something better:
good, hard balls. Otherwise called an Olympian gaze.
                                                           51
    This Business of Living

20th November
        All that I could concede to "pure poetry" results from
the ecstatic unification of all poetry in the instant of contem-
plation. Oratory fails, lacking a framework of intricate thought.
The whole will resolve itself in a blaze of light fired by those
various thoughts, those interwoven sensations. The image-
story was just this. Only, it was one story made out of one
single verb (he killed, smoked, drank, rejoiced, etc.). The
problem is how to get out of the simple statement and write
complete sentences.
        Will it be so in the actual novel? Substitute for the
concatenation of facts an inner prospect? Revert to the idea
of presenting thought in motion?
        The most ordinary and banal method of narrating
thought is to set up a figure that builds itself up as it goes
along, with its own past and future. The little old man in
Semplicita. The god-man in Mito. The prostitute in Puttana
contadina. The scheme of these poems is a compromise be-
tween the position of the characters and the fanciful logic of
the material from which they are made. I do not record only
their essence, nor do I record only my own flights of imagina-
tion. It is always doubtful whether they· think for themselves
or whether I think for them. I am interested in their experi-
ences as well as in my own fanciful logic. But let us be clear:
my logic is a means, a method of bringing their experiences
into being. The "discovery of points of contact, making that
the very plot of my story" would thus seem to be an illusion.
        Let us be clear: in the back of my mind I do not
tolerate that the plot shall be the discovery of contacts. Even
in ecstasies the means is not the end. In practice, no one can
tell his own style: style is, by definition, something that one
employs for a purpose.
         When style becomes an end in itself, it will become
something objective, a situation, and one does not see why it
should have more dignity than any other matter in the world
of narrative.
     51
                                                       1937
          Of the cousin in M ari del Sud, I said he was doing
 one thing and another, while of the country prostitute I say
 that in the morning there returns to her, invoked by her
 surroundings (scents, sunlight, limbs, bed) a longing for her
 childhood, and it is on this postulation that the deeply signifi-
 cant finale depends.
          0{ the hermit in Primo Paesaggio, too, I said that he
 was doing one thing and another, but the innovation, com-
 pared to M ari del Sud, was that the things he did had
 objective imaginative connections. It is only with the "I'' of
 Gente S paesata that I begin to say that the character thinks
in terms of an imaginative complex, and this train of thought
is the subject of the story.
          So the image-story is born of the "I" character ( cf.
 especially the "I'' who is the little boy in M ari, and who, in
 his little way, is already a person of whom less is said about
what he does than about what he thinks). This is the point:
 the "I" concealed in Dio caprone, the "I" of Mania di
 solitudine and the "I" of Pensieri di Dina all confirm it: the
"I'' who relates his own thought has created the method for
the ensuing poems in the third person, in which the subject
is no longer what the character does, but what he thinks.
 My poetry from then on speaks of the character's complex
thought processes within himself. And the fact that the bare
thought, starting with the hermit, should have thenceforth
blossomed out into sensations has no specific importance.
          I was wrong in M estiere del poeta, in stating that with
the hermit I made his thought process the subject of the
story: with the hermit I for the first time enjoyed dealing
with sensations and their connecting links, but the subject was
still the events.
          So, once this moment of evolution is glimpsed, it is
ckar why it seemed to me I had to speak of a compromise.
If the image story is born empirically out of the situation of
an "I" narrating his actions in the form of thoughts (images),
objective poems in the third person are a simple transposition
into the third person of the time-honored introspective tech-
                                                         53
       This Business of Living
 nique. No matter how shrewd or surprising the evocation of
 the various imaginative complexes (the image-story) may
 be, it becomes clear that the subject is not the logical or
 imaginative thought process of a particular mind, but what
 that mind thinks and feels. Not the style, but the content.
A conclusion so banal that it seems stupid.
         Let us be extremely clear: to get a true account of a
train of thought I should have to evoke the inner conscious-
ness of someone who meditates on his ways of thinking. And
that does not seem a great subject.
         The truth of the saying: "Renounce the world, and
 the world will give you more than you know what to do with,"
 lies in this. Having renounced everything, the tiniest things
left to you assume gigantic importance. It is, in short, a way
of getting the utmost savor out of trifles you would normally
overlook.
         There is this, too. For other people, the value of the
things they deny us is indicated largely by cur eagerness to
possess them. We only have to look in another direction and
the owners of those things immediately feel they are not worth
keeping, so they throw them after us.
         So much for worldly wisdom. If the phrase is intended
to refer to some mystical teaching, so much the worse for
mysticism. What if God puts a value on His creations accord-
ing to whether we desire them more or less? A God with an
inferiority complex? Who would ever have thought it?

21st   November
        If it is true that one gets used to suffering, how is it
that as the years go by one always suffers more?
        No, they are not mad, those people who amuse them-
selves, enjoy life, travel, make love, fight-they are not mad.
We should like to do the same ourselves.
        If hammering away at things always brings success,
why not in this, too?
        To think that that body has thoughts, reawakening,
repose, relaxation, a daily routine ! If I were that man I
       54
                                                       1937
should really have all that, in the next room or under my
eyes. The day would end with her. This, this is what I have
lost, and no human power can give it back to me. And all
that has been thrown away, without love. It is not a crime,
not a sin, not even misbehavior: just one of those little things
one does, with no more compunction than killing a fly.
        Look on the bright side! There is a moral law.

 23rd November
         The only joy in the world is to begin. It is good to be
 alive because living is beginning, always, every moment. When
this sensation is lacking-as when one is in prison, or ill, or
stupid, or when living has become a habit-one might as well
be dead.
         That is why, when a painful situation is repeated
identically, or seems identical, the horror is overwhelming.
         This is not, however, the principle of a bon viveur. For
experience at any cost, like senseless traveling at all costs, is
more a matter of habit than any ordinary way of life ac-
cepted as a duty and lived with intelligence and enjoyment.
I am convinced that habit plays a larger part in casual love
affairs than in a good marriage. In an affair, one always keeps
certain mental reservations as a form of self-defense, hence
there is no such thing as a good, completely satisfying love
affair. To find it good, one must surrender oneself to it
unreservedly: in short, marriage. Even marriages made in
heaven.
         A man who does not feel this sensation of always
starting afresh that animates normal married life is, in reality,
a fool. Whatever he may say, he would find nothing fresh in
a new love affair.
         It is the same lesson as always: plunge headlong into
whatever you do, and learn to bear the pain. It is better to
suffer from having dared to try, than from shirking the ordeal.
As children know: it is their nature to do so, and to hang
back is a disgrace. In the end, as you see, you pay a higher
price.
                                                        55
    This Business of Living

25th November
        Moral law serves to keep us from injuring ourselves,
not to give protection to others. Only charity can tell us what
harm we do to others by carrying out our duty. That is seen
not only in matters of love, but in the whole of life. What a
great ideal it would be to ask every man, unceasingly, tire-
lessly, what is troubling him, penalizing or torturing him, and
comfort him, embrace him, kindle him afresh.
         But every man means all men, all the time, and that
one cannot do. It is impossible, for the very reason that there
would always be at least one man who would not have that
comfort, that embrace-oneself. For one thing is certain: to
see a man made happy, even through our own effort, is not
enough to give us peace. (Consider, for example, unsatisfied
women.)
         This may seem a mixture of the sacred and profane,
but is not. Life begins in the body.
         I write . . . have pity. And then?
         Never again take anything seriously that does not
depend on you alone. Like love, friendship and glory.
         And those things that do depend on you alone, does
it much matter whether you take them seriously or not? Who
is to know anything about it? For, if you are alone, there is
no who: even "I" becomes meaningless. Better and better.

26th November
         Why do we forget the dead? Because they are no
longer any use to us. Just as we forget, or push into the
background, someone who is ill or bowed down with grief,
because, physically or mentally, they have nothing to give us.
No one will ever devote himself to you except for what he
will get out of it.
        And you? I believe I did once feel wholehearted, dis-
interested devotion. Then I should not weep at losing the
object of my devotion, for if I do I am no longer disinterested.
         Yet, seeing the suffering it entails, the sacrifice is
     56
                                                      1937
against nature. Or greater than I can bear. I cannot help
grieving. But to grieve is to yield to the way of the world, and
recognize that I was seeking some personal advantage. But
is there anyone who can renounce something he could have?
Such charity is simply idealizing impotence.
        That's enough of virtuous indignation. If I had had
the fangs and the cunning, I should have captured the prey.
         But that does nqt make the cross of having been
deceived, of failure, of being myself, any less painful to bear.
After all, the most famous person crucified was a god: not
deceived, not vanquished. And yet, with all his omnipotence,
he cried: "Eli." But then he went on to resurrection and
triumph, as he knew he would, beforehand. On those terms,
who would not be willing to be crucified?
        So many men have died in despair. And those suffered
more than Christ.
        But the real, tremendous truth is this: suffering serves
no purpose whatever.
        All men have a cancer that gnaws them, a daily
discharge, a recurring evil: their own dissatisfaction; the
point of conflict between their real, skeletal being and the
infinite complexity of life. And all men realize it, sooner or
later, by slow perception or a sudden flash of insight. Almost
all men, it seems, can retrace, in their childhood, the signs
foreshadowing their adult agony. To investigate this hotbed
of retrospective discoveries, alarming as they prove to be, is to
see the sufferings of the grown man predicted by the irrepar-
able acts and words of his infancy. I Fioretti of the Devil.
Contemplate this horror always: what has been, will be.

28th November
        In love, all that counts is having a woman in one's
home, in one's bed. All the rest is a pack of nonsense, per-
nicious nonsense.
        The most commonplace kind of love is fed by what
one does not know about the loved one. But what can surpass
a love based on what one does know?
                                                        57
    This Business of Living
        The truth is that I always arrive at a point three or
four years after my contemporaries: hence my habit of cling-
ing desperately, if wrongly, to the verities I have discovered
formyseH.
        A proof of vanitas vanitatum: we are each so inter-
ested in ourselves, yet it is only by chance that we are ourselves
and not someone else. I could have been born a woman and
become a maidservant, and then, what problems?
        Is it not a mere illusion, too, how important we think
we are when any attention is centered on us, whether we are
a servant girl or any member of the whole human race?
A person of vast interest.
        Is it not tragic, the fact that everyone with a religious
faith is a little ridiculous? If there were only one faith, that
could not happen. The great, the fearful irony of life is that
at any moment we could be fools. That is a thing all men
dread: one would rather be a louse than an imbecile. The old
story. The reason is that every imbecile is also a louse, and
not vice versa. A prudent louse is conceivable, but could
there be a prudent imbecile? For a moment, possibly, but the
whole year long? The life of an imbecile is always made up
of lousy tricks, because his stupidity leads him into situations
he cannot escape from, except by violating the rules of the
social game.
        I know an idiot who refused to learn the rules of the
game when he was young, lost as he was in fantasies. Now
the fantasies are vanishing and the game is shattering him.
        Problem : woman, is she the prize of the strong or the
prop of the weak, depending on how the men want her?
        The irony of life: woman gives herseH as a prize to
the weak and as a prop to the strong. And no man ever has
what he should have.

29th November
        Shouldn't it surprise me, on some morning of mist and
sunshine to think that whatever I have had was a gift, a
great gift? That out of the nothingness of my ancestors, that
     58
                                                    1937
hostile nothingness, I emerged and grew all by myseH, with
all my bad and good qualities, and, by dint of hard work and
toughness, overcoming all sorts of hazards, I became what I
am today, a living, vigorous man? And then to meet that one
woman, she herseH another miracle brought out of not;hingness
by the workings of chance! The joy I have known with her,
and the pain, what was it but a gift, a great gift?

goth November
        Every critic is really a woman at the critical age,
spiteful and repressed.
        A man has committed murder. Ignore for a moment
his dread that someone may come, his anxiety as to how he
will face the world, his terror at the thought of the whole
world up in arms against him. Leave out of it his worry
about getting away and going on as if nothing has happened.
Take it that he is certain to escape. Does there not still remain
an abyss of horror: the realization that his victim, whether
loved or hated, no longer exists, can never more be something
to love or hate? The agony of having to start life over again,
for with the death of our victim, we, too, have died ! The
unforeseen sinking of our own vitality, for, if this was in
truth a crime of passion, our life was once identified with that
of our victim!
        I can never think of death without shuddering at this
idea of mine. Death will necessarily come, from ordinary
causes. It is inevitable, and one's whole life is a preparation
for it, an event as natural as the fall of raindrops. I cannot
resign myseH to that thought. Why not seek death of one's
own free will, asserting one's right to choose, giving it some
significance? Instead of passively letting it happen? Why not?
        Here's the reason. One always puts off the decision,
feeling (or hoping) that one more day, one more hour of
life, might also prove an opportunity of asserting our freedom
of choice, which we should lose by seeking death. In short,
because one thinks-and I speak for myself-that there is
plenty of time. So the day of natural death comes, and we
                                                         59
     This Business of Living
have missed the great opportunity of perfonning, for a specific
reasonJ the most important act in life.
        A love thought: I love you so much that I could wish
I had been born your brother, or had brought you into the
world myself.

Ist December
         I should be perfectly happy if it were not for the fleet-
ing pain of trying to probe the secret of that happiness, so as
to be able to find it again tomorrow and always. But perhaps
I am confused and my happiness lies in that pain. Once more
I find myself hoping that, tomorrow, the memory will
suffice.

2nd December
      Today you have talked too much.

 4th December
         Practical-minded people always have a sense of humor.
The man who turns his back on life, absorbed in his naive
 contemplation (and all contemplation is naive), does not
view things as being detached from himself, endowed with
their own free, complex and diversified movement due to their
individual origins. Contemplation, by its very nature, dwells
on the lively, sentimental impressions inspired in us by the
things we come across. Hence the excuse all contemplative
people make: they live in touch with things, and so, neces-
sarily, do not feel they are odd or singular; they simply feel
them and that is all. Practical men-and this is a paradox-
live detached from things, not feeling things, just understand-
ing how they work. Unless a man is detached from something,
he cannot laugh at it. There is a tragedy implicit in this:
when you have fully mastered a thing you draw away from
it and consequently lose interest in it. Hence the breathless
pursuit of something fresh.
        Naturally, no one is wholly contemplative or wholly
practical, for one cannot experience everything in life. Even
    60
                                                       1937
the most efficient people have something they are sentimental
about.
        You have trusted your life to a single hair; don't
struggle, or you will break it.
        Ingenuousness has a craft of its own, derived from its
very simplicity: "You are such a fool that nobody opposes
you." Under a variety of curious devices, an aU-pervading air
of stupidity is the best policy.

 5th December
         The mistake sentimentalists make is not in believing
 that "tender affections" exist, but in laying claim to those
 affections in the name of their own tender nature. Only harsh
 and resolute natures have the knowledge and ability to sur-
 round themselves with tender affection and they-tragically-
 are least able to enjoy them.
         Understand clearly, once and for all, that to be in love
 is a personal matter which does not concern the beloved
object, even if you are loved in return. Symbolic words and
gestures are exchanged, in that event, but each reads his own
feelings into them and supposes, by analogy, that the other
feels the same. But there is no reason, no necessity, why the
two should coincide. It calls for a special art to receive and
interpret these symbols favorably, and arrange your own life
accordingly in a satisfactory way. All one can do to the other
is to proffer these symbols and cherish the illusion that they
are reciprocated. But at the back of one's mind there must
be a reservation, a practical device: a decision to make use of
this offering (made by the loved one for his or her own satis-
faction) to satisfy one's own needs. A man clever enough to
correlate these reactions will neTer be troubled by vicissitudes,
for he can arrange everything to his own advantage and
create a world of crystal in which to enjoy his beloved. But
he will never forget that this crystal ball is a vacuum, and
will take care not to break it by any inept attempt to intro-
duce air. Raptures, renunciations, children, trust, devotion,
these are personal symbols from which the air-the mystical
                                                        61
     This Business of Living
intrusion of one's partner in love-must always be excluded.
Between these symbols and reality there is the same connection
as between words and things. One must be astute to give them
their due significance without mistaking them for the real stuff
of life. Therein lies the solitude every man knows, cold and
immutable.

7th December
        If it were true that man has freedom of choice, would
he talk so much about it? Who can say this is not merely an
assumption? In some things one can be free, if one so wishes;
in others, one is bound by the effects of previous action. But
the initial choice?
         A man who has not come up against the barrier of
some physical impossibility that affects his whole life (impo-
tence, dyspepsia, asthma, imprisonment, etc.) does not know
what suffering is. In fact, such causes bring him to a decision
of renouncement: a despairing attempt to make a virtue out
of what is, in any case, inevitable. Could anything be more
contemptible?
         A man who feels 'no temptation because he does not do
that sort of thing, is in a fine position; not so the one who is
tempted, but renounces it. In realisti~ terms, the first is peace,
the second, torture. Whatever heroes may say, it is stupid to
suffer.
        Before being shrewd about others, you must learn to
be shrewd with yourself. There is an art in so arranging things
that the sin we commit becomes virtuous to our conscience.
Any woman can teach you that art.
        The art of making oneself loved consists of tergiversa-
tion, irritation, disgust, miserly little concessions that seem
wonderfully sweet on the surface, but which bind the unlucky
fellow like double ropes; but at the bottom of his heart and
instinct they inspire and foster a furious resentment that
expresses itself in scorn and a fierce determination to be
avenged. To make slaves is bad policy, as we have seen before
and will again.
     62
                                                          1937
        The usual tragedy: only the man who can make him-
sell hated can make himsell loved-by the same woman.
        Youth ends when we perceive that no one wants our
gay abandon. And the end may come in two ways: the
realization that other people dislike it, or that we ourselves
cannot continue with it. Weak men grow older in the first
way, the strong in the second. I was among the first group.
Oh, well ! Make the best of it !
        A true man, in our day, cannot reserve his opinion as
to the inevitalfility of war. Either he is an out-and-out pacifist
or a ruthless warmonger; saint or butcher. How we have
fallen!
        Why is it inadvisable to lose your sell-control? Because
then you are sincere.

I Ith December
        It is not true that chastity is sexually alluring, for, if it
were, women would be avid for young novices and newly
ordained priests, who may be supposed to take their vows
seriously. Instead, women go for elderly swine, men with
plenty of experience, bald-headed and bad-tempered.
        And you, too. You have never dreamed of nuns, have
you?

Isth December
      Try to do someone a good tum. You will soon see
how you will hate his radiant, grateful face.

15th December
        That life is one long fight for existence is very plain
from the sexual relationship betweeu men and women, in
which, in spite of all the restraint of chivalrous ideals, in spite
of social insistence on conformity and obedience to convention,
in spite of everything, it inevitably happens that a partner
who fails to provide the longed-for thrill of liberation will be
rejected.
        And one can understand the innate, ravening loneli-
                                                            63
     This Business of Living
ness in every man, seeing how the thought of another man
consummating the act with a woman-any woman-becomes
a nightmare, a disturbing awareness of a foul obscenity, an
urge to stop him, or, if possible, destroy him. Can one really
endure that another man-any man-should commit with
any woman the act of shame? Noooo. Yet this is the central
activity of life, beyond question. See the falsity of all our
altruism. However saintly we may be, it disgusts and offends
us to know that another man is screwing.

x6th December
        Cursed be the man who "mingles frankness with the
things of love." The same thing applies to the things of art.
The reason is that art and the sexual life stem from the same
root.
        Yet, just as a great artist is one who constructs,
amorally, a sound and moral world, a great lover is one who
brings an extraordinary moral intensity to each and every one
of his erotic worlds. The artist is always sincere with himself,
on pain of failure in his work. The great lover, the same, on
pain of not feeling his love.

17th December
        First love: "when we are grown up, we shall be able
to say these things to women."

I8th December
       There is something even sadder than falling short of
one's own ideals: to have realized them.

22nd December
         Each of your stories is a combination of figures moved
by the same passion expressed in different ways in their
individual titles. Notte di festa, celebrating the festival of the
Saint; Terra d'esilio, all men imprisoned; Primo amore, all
men moved by the discovery of sex. I am speaking of the long
stories. The short ones strike you as the least realistic.
     64
                                                        1937
       Your real muse, in prose, is dialogue, because in it you
can express the absurd-ingenuous-mythical outpourings that
cunningly interpret reality. Which you could not do in poetry.

 23rd December
         The child who passes his days and nights among men
and women, knowing vaguely but not believing that this is
reality, troubled, in short, that sex should exist at all, does
he not foreshadow the man who spends his time among men
and women, knowing, believing that this is the only reality,
suffering atrociously from his own mutilation? This feeling
that my heart is being torn out and plunged into the depths,
this giddiness that rends my breast and shatters me, is some-
thing I did not experience even when I was befooled in April.
         The fate reserved for me (like the rat, my boy!) was
to let the scar heal over, and then (with a breath, a caress,
a sigh) to have it torn open again and a new infection added.
         Neither deception nor jealousy have ever given me
this vertigo of the blood. It took impotence, the conviction
that no woman ever finds pleasure with me, or ever would.
We are as we are; hence this anguish. If nothing else, I can
suffer without feeling ashamed: my pangs are no longer those
of love. But this, in very truth, is pain that destroys all energy:
if one is not really a man, if one must mix with women with-
out being able to think of possessing them, how can one
sustain one's spirits and vital power? Could a suicide be better
justified?
         To accqrd with such a dreadful thought, it is right that
I should have this terrible sensation of being crushed, annihi-
lated, in my breast, my muscles, my inmost heart. So far, it
lasts only for an instant,_ but what of the day when it will
last longer? When it will endure for an hour or all day long?

25th December
        With love or with hate, but always with violence.
        Going to prison is nothing: coming back from it is
frightful.
                                                          65
       This Business of Living
          The average man ought to be well disciplined, not a
 street-loafer. I am neither the one nor the other.
          There is something sadder than growing old-remain-
 ing a child.
          If screwing was not the most important thing in life,
 Genesis would not have started with it.
          Naturally, everybody says to you "What does it mat-
 ter? That's not the only thing. Life is full of variety. A man
 can be good for something else," but no one, not even the
 men; will look at you unless you radiate that power. And the
 women say to you: "What does it matter," and so on, but
 they marry someone else. And to marry means building a
 whole life, a thing you will never do. Which shows you have
 remained a child too long.
          If you got on so badly with her, who was everything
 you dreamed of, with whom could you ever get on well?
          Do you remember your dreams of workmen's bright
 little houses; those woodland walks above a meadow; your
 city, cold below the mountains; the red neon signs facing
you across the piazza; your Sunday strolls towards this piazza,
 over the cobbles; and then your heart-rending dream of
 Piedmontese-intemational friendships, of girls who live alone
and work for their living, the charm and serenity of the
common way of life; and then all the poems you wrote in
that first year. Are all those things destroyed for ever by what
happened on gth April? All your youth, spent in the cinema
and the Piazza Statuto? Dead, utterly dead?
         Do you remember how, at Brancaleone, you were
always thinking of the Piazza Statuto?
         It had to happen to you, to concentrate your whole
life on one point, and then discover that you can do anything
except live at that point.
         Mter all, today is the 25th. And she is in the moun-
tains. There was one 25th when she did not go there. Really?
         What good is there in living with others, when each
man scorns the things that are really important to any other
individual?
     66
                                                       1937
          To be pleasing to men, one has to profess what each
of those men, in his secret being, views with repulsion and
hatred.
          Sincerely. I would rather die than hear from her like
this. Now, truly, I wish I believed in God, to be able to pray
to Him that she will live, that nothing will happen to her, that
it is all a dream, that there will still be a tomorrow. Far better
if I were the one to disappear.
          One woman can teach you more than a hundred.

 30th December
         Why should I give up? In this past year, 1937, I have
recovered from the ruin of 1936; the awful collapse ('35-'36)
has become merely a crisis encountered on the road to matu-
rity. Oddly enough, I have again found a love that may last
a while, that has touched the depths of my heart; again I
 have sought to express myself in poetry, and succeeded with
La vecchia ubriaca; acquired a sound reputation with a
certain journal as a thoughtful critic; written several novels,
all significant and promising--one of them outstanding. I have
regained a sense of the rhythm of creation.
        Translated four books for 6,200 lire, done a good deal
of teaching and found a sequence .of pupils. I have hopes of
doing as much in 1938.
        This is hardly the moment to look ahead, for war may
break out and blow us all up. That would be a fine stroke
of cosmic irony. Provided that stupid farce does not happen
I can answer for myself, and for her, and for everything.
        And in this present year my long and secret shame has
been straightened out. In that other year, 1934, there was a
13th August. Yet I am still alive. Isn't it a miracle?
        There is only one vice, desire, which some call ambi-
tion, others lust. Genesis, in its obscurity, propounds original
sin as an act of ambition that could be interpreted as lust.
The tragic thing in life is that good and evil have the same
motive force, desire, but colored in different ways. Like colors
seen at night, that can be distinguished only by instinct or
                                                         67
     This Business of Living
  from prior knowledge, never by clear perception. The charm
  and thrill of vice is the same tremor of excitement we get
  from seeing a color at night, taking it to be one thing and
 then finding it to be something different.
         We handle masses of indeterminate color, often think-
 ing one is red when it is blue and always agitated as soon as
 we try to tell one from another. The tragedy of well-meaning
 people is the tragedy of a little man gathering all the blue he
 can find by the light of dawn, and then, at dusk, groping
 about in his collection afraid of picking up red, which may,
 in any case, tum out to be yellow. Conscience is nothing more
 than a flair, trying to recognize a color by the feel of it.
       There is this much truth in "art for art's sake": we
 sit down at our little table and revel in our freedom to produce
 whatever we choose. The need to obey hidden rules is a salt
 that adds savor to our choice and induces, out· of our inmost
 soul, our finest work of composition and selection, a creation
 that springs, quivering and sparkling, from our very con-
 science. Once the work is finished there comes a sense of
 detachment and, at bottom, of dissatisfaction. This choice of
 ours, this composition, is now presented to the outside world.
 We can no longer change a word of it, but must accept it as
 a natural reality. We feel like a father, not a lover. We
 scrutinize our work with cautious curiosity, a slightly hostile
 anxiety: as if it were a child leaving home.
         Is there any man who does not feel a sense of stupefac-
 tion and resignation when he sees how far his work falls short
 of his dream? Or who does not find in it things he did not
know?
         All your serenity, your altruism, virtue and self-
sacrifice fall away from you in the presence of two people, a
man and a woman, who you know have screwed each other,
or will screw. Their little secret seems improper, insufferable.
And if one of them is all you dream of? What then?
         To love someone is like saying: "From now on she
will think more of my happiness than of her own."
         A man who is not jealous even of his mistress's pants,
is not really in love.
     68
                                                              1937
          Is there anything more profound than the childlike
  action of a lover who sucks the breast of his beloved?
          Two things interest you: the technique of love and the
 technique of art. In both you have met with success, by dint
 of ingenuity and a clumsy persistence that was not devoid of
 pleasure. In both you began with heresies, but in both you
 created a masterpiece or two. But the day will come when
 you will discover, in art, the disaster you found in love.
          (Cf. entry for 20th November, para. 2.) The auto-
 biographical origin of related thought in your poetry is on a
 par with the autobiographical origin of the objective novel,
 as you have found in Cellini and Defoe. To present real
 experiences in the form of an account by a third person is a
 refinement of technique, but surely it must always ( ? ! ) begin
 with reality as known to the writer, and therefore be auto-
 biographical. As happens in your own novels, too.
          Then poetry and the novel must surely spring from
 the same root as drama? However many characters speak,
isn't it the writer speaking?
          One banal, complicated variation on this theme is the
modem technique of having the different characters in the
novel all telling their own life story. (As I Lay Dying~
Faulkner.)
          Hitherto you have made the protagonist speak in the
first person, without bothering to characterize him and give
him his own mode of expression. Now you must also concern
yourself with his individuality, create him as a person, not
leave him a neutral version of yourself (and that will be
Volgarita or Suicidi) .1

Timidity                                                         Suicidi
              A woman cashier
                   nobly passionate remorse
                                                                    or
          Timid Streets
A story and its effect                                        Volgarita
1-The titles of two stories in the volume Notte di festa, published post•
humously in 1953· Ed.

                                                               69
     This Business of Living
     (Epigraph:)
         Pour obtenir la moindre rose,
         pour extorquer quelques epis
         des pleurs sales de son front gris
         sans cesse i1 faut qu'illes arrose.
         L'un est l'Art, et l'autre !'Amour.

          La   Ran~on




grd January
         The real fundamental reason for our incompatibility
is that she welcomes things spontaneously, uncritically, eagerly,
and her view of their relative importance follows broad, tradi-
tional lines. She accepts everything, body and soul, as one
should. Look at her frank delight in mountains; the very way
she fritters away her days, quite happy to be doing just that;
her capacity for giving herself up completely to whatever she
has that moment decided to do.
         But you have let slip the bonds of harmony between
your body and your mind; you live amid contradictions--
voluptuous-tragic, craven-heroic, sensual-idealistic-without
being master of yourself, merely observing these excessive
swings of the pendulum in stunned amazement. Your eyes
drank in her beauty while she ate her brioche. She wished
you all the good in the world, as far as her nature allowed.
Bat to you she is life itself, and death. Yet, of the two of us,
she will always be the one to be penalized.
         She is sound and well balanced, while you lean all in
one direction; she is more stable than you, because you live
on thoughts, she on reality, and reality is never unbalanced,
never at fault. It is always from the unreasonable partner that
harm comes, not from the one who is realistic. I can never,
in spite of all that has happened, be victimized by her. She by
me, yes, in a thousand ways. But that is cold comfort.
     70
                                                      1938

4th January
        You, if you plan some act of self-denial, want it to be
so intense, so highly individual, that in the end it means
nothing to anyone. Don't forget that at your first communion
you would not even swallow your spittle so as not to break
your fast.

5th January
        One cannot change one's nature. You know how
simple-minded you used to be, incapable of lying, showing
your feelings in the hope that, when shared, they would be
more complete. And you think you have changed your tune
because now you display gloomy convictions that lying is
necessary.
        This much is certain: you can have anything in life
except a wife to call you "her man." And till now all your
life was based on that hope.
        The art of living is the art of knowing how to believe
lies. The fearful thing about it is that, not knowing what truth
may be, we can still recognize a lie.

8th January
        There is nothing ridiculous or absurd about a man
who is thinking of killing himself being afraid of falling under
a car or catching a fatal disease. Quite apart from the question
of the degree of suffering involved, the fact remains that to
want to kill oneself is to want one's death to be significant,
a supreme choice, a deed that cannot be misunderstood. So
it is natural that no would-be suicide can endure the thought
of anything so meaningless as being run over or dying of
pneumonia. So beware of draughts and street corners.

15th January
       The penalty of a man who allows himself to act against
his nature is that when he wants to be natural he no longer
can be. The story of Jekyll and Hyde.
                                                        71
      This Business of Living
        All those characters who became famous for their
Olympian calm (Shakespeare-Goethe, even Sturani) 1 never
acquired their serenity by overcoming tumult, as a reward
for some heroic effort. The simple truth is that they were
born Olympians and never had to make that effort. If they
seem swayed by the tumult of passion, they have a judicious
means of coping with it that leaves them immune. This to
console you for your own efforts to remain calm. You are
not born an Olympian and never will be one. Your efforts
are futile, for a man who has once succumbed to turmoil
may do so again. It is a problem of engineering. Every bridge
has a limited span. Beyond that it would collapse. It is a
question of strength. Will power is only the tensile strength
of one's own disposition. One cannot increase it by a single
ounce.
        Your salvation-a nice little flower to offer you at
thirty-lies solely in timidity, creeping back into your shell,
never running any risk. But if the risk seeks you out? And
how long will your shell last?
        Another thing to know: however terrifying your trials
have been so far, you are so made that they will be worse
tomorrow. In your case the only thing that grows with the
years is your capacity for detachment, not for resistance. For
your shell-and today you see this clearly-gets thinner and
thinner, even as far as material things are concerned. You
are ill and out of work.
        And so are thousands of other men. Don't flatter your-
self you are outstanding, even in that. You always were a poor
fish, and the worst of it is you still are.
        For people to feel sorry for us we must "keep smiling"
and not be too dirty, so that we represent some advantage to
anyone who cares to be bothered with us. But the man who
truly calls for pity and benevolence-one who is downtrodden,
obsessed, impotent, verminous, filthy, ill-spoken, hopeless, a
mere husk-who would devote their life to him? I mean
1 Mario Sturani, one of Pavese's few intimate friends, was his fellow
student at school and the university. Sturani, a painter, was a leading
member of the intellectual, anti-fascist group in Turin.
     72
                                                       1938
absolutely, as a woman who married such a man would do,
unreservedly. Plenty of people, out of charity, would feed
him, reason with him, wash away his filth, but who would be
willing to link their life to his?
         Has there even been a saint who saved one person
only? They all saved multitudes, fulfilled their mission, sought
out many poor unfortunates, but was there ever a saint who
stopped at one? And even a man noble enough to lay down
his life for another, would he have been willing to spend his
life yoked to that other, him and him alone?

I 6th January
         I wish I could always be sure, as I am this morning,
that since the will power of an adult is conditioned by the
hundred thousand decisions he took as an irresponsible child,
it is ridiculous to talk of free will. One gradually acquires
characteristics without even knowing how, and beyond ques-
tion, one acts in this way or that according to one's personality.
Where, then, is any freedom of choice?
         Is it conceivable to murder someone in order to count
for something in his life? Then it is conceivable to kill oneself
so as to count for something in one's own life.
        Here's the difficulty about suicide: it is an act of
ambition that can be committed only when one has passed
beyond ambition.
        The "illusions" of Leopardi have come down to earth
again.

17th January
        This can happen: with an immense expenditure of
patient sincerity, the sentimental man arrives at the same
conclusions as any rake. You can laugh, but love is like that.
Nothing in life is worth having at a price beyond its value.
But sentimentality is nothing more nor less than a distortion
of values.
        Prostitutes work for money. But what woman gives
herself unless she knows the reason why?
(Night, insomnia.)
                                                          73
     This Business of Living
        Many men on the point of an edifying death would
be furious if they were suddenly restored to health.

             "Yet we all kill the thing we love,
              By all let this be heard.
              Some do it with a bitter look,
              Some with a flattering word."

      To love without mental reservations is a luxury for
which one pays and pays and pays.

19th January
         There is absolutely no one who makes a sacrifice with-
out hoping for some recompense. It is all a question of buying
and selling.
         H suffering is the only way of learning, I wonder why
it is forbidden by philosophy to injure one's neighbor, thereby
educating him in the best way?
         If you tell me that in this jungle of self-interest, the
world, there exists one power for good--enthusiasm for ideals
- I ask: "What ideals?" For you idealists are the first to
attack or treat as a criminal any man whose ideal is not the
same as yours. We admit, then, that one can be mistaken as
to what is ideal. Once the possibility of error is admitted,
what does your own pursuit of an ideal become, if not a
problem of seH-interest and calculation? And in that case,
since one man is born shrewd and another not, where does
responsibility lie?
         Why does a man who is truly in love insist that this
relationship must continue and be "lifelong''? Because life is
pain and the enjoyment of love is an anesthetic. Who would
want to wake up halfway through an operation?
         Cruelties forbidden by law are petty, commonplace
things compared with the secret, agonizing cruelties one inflicts
by the mere fact of being alive and trying to get along as
best one can.
         Loneliness is pain; copulation is pain; piling up pos-
    74
                                                      1938
sessions or herding with a crowd is pain; Death puts an end
to it all.
          The shrewdness of a virtuous man! Is virtue possible
without shrewdness? I call shrewdness the capacity for assessing
values. And, without calculation, no one is good. Because a
man who is "pure and simple" is merely a simpleton, or,
rather, an imbecile.
          But, unconsciously, I am convinced that without
forgetfulness-of-sell, one is only an egotist. Look at women!
You could strangle them, but never will they forget where
their interest lies. And would you call them virtuous?

21st January
        A woman is adept at arousing a man's desire, but she
is scandalized if this capacity of hers is recognized.
        The decadent poetry of France, and therefore of
Europe, has been largely influenced by long familiarity with
English songs and the works of Poe. Hence, surely, its fondness
for phonetic effects, its feeling for "the magic of words,"
since the habit of reading foreign poetry, never more than
half understood, depends for its pleasure on the sound, the
glamour evoked by those mysterious syllables.

22nd January
        It is conceivable that, by making himself insignificant,
colorless, invisible, a man can spend the best years of his life
with a woman, untouched by misfortune. But one cannot
imagine a conqueror, a braggart or a great lover escaping the
irony of life.
        Who would ever have thought that, after having
studied every possible method of sexual isolation-"self·
sufficiency"-! should find it in me to want to get married,
chiefly as a proof of confidence in me on the part of a woman?
And for sexual serenity?
        If you were born a second time you should be very
careful, even in your attachment to your mother. You can
only lose by it.
                                                        75
     This Business of Living
       They tell me: "To understand that carnal jealousy is
nonsense, you must have been a libertine.,

 24th January
          The sentimental man, the dreamer, he who distorts
 values, begins by believing that his inaptitude for practical
 things is a small price to pay for the ineffable consolations
 and triumphs he will find in his dreams.
          Then he discovers that the world of dreams also calls
 for skill in management, a practical aptitude. But he learns
 this only when it is too late for him to overcome his inveterate
 artlessness, and that is the real price he has to pay.
          Basically, all I am looking for in life is every reason I
 can find for treating her like a cow. Who? Life?
          Here's something to learn from her: every time you
 read her some undoubtedly true but unpalatable thought, she
smiles tolerantly and refuses to discuss it. As all crafty people
 do, especially with themselves.
         We store up things--rage, humiliation, cruel impulses,
 agony, tears, frenzy-and in the end we find we have a can-
cer, nephritis, diabetes or sclerosis that reduces us to nothing.
It would be amazing if it were otherwise.
         The worst thing about misfortunes is that they give
you the habit of interpreting everything as a misfortune even
when it is not.
         They are right-fools, idiots, stubborn, violent men,
everyone except reasonable beings. What else does one do, in
history, but invent reasonable explanations for one's own
follies? Which is tantamount to calling in a lot of other fools
to turn sense upside down. One should be a fool, not a
dreamer; on the far, not the near, side of conformity. A fool
can still grow sensible again, but all a dreamer can do is to
cut himself off from the world. The fool has enemies; the
dreamer has only himself.
         Christianity cannot die, because it contains the possi-
bility of every form of discipline.
     76
                                                       1938
         A precis of any love affair: one begins by thinking
about it (exaltation), and ends by analyzing it (curiosity) •
         What can a woman matter to me unless she is prepared
to sacrifice her whole life to me? This is every man's unspoken
demand, othenvise he would not marry, or wish to. Isn't that
what one expects of marriage? Yes, yes of course, we men are
ready to reciprocate. But with a difference. If the lady changes
her mind, naturally we shall, too; but if it is the man who
gets a different idea (a little adultery on a Sunday, for in-
stance), it does not by any means follow that she has the right
to do the same. Do you agree?

25th January
        Actually, I am living like the most contemptible wast-
rels that ever roused my scorn when I was young.

 26th January
        One cannot escape one's own character: a misogynist
you were, and still are. Who would have thought it?
        It's clear, isn't it, that without her you no longer find
life worth living? Clear, too, that she will never come back to
you. Even if she did, we have hurt each other too deeply for
us ever to live together again. Then what?
        Why write these things that she will read, and that
may well make her decide to intervene, to walk out on you?
And what sort of life would you lead in that event? October,
'37 over again?
        Remember that it is all written: February, '34, when
you climbed these stairs for the first time, and stopped to think
that perhaps it was the beginning of the end.
        The fetters of Sapri. Every time the wheel turned you
repeated her name.
        Can't you face the fact that one day soon, tomorrow,
perhaps, she will go off with him in a train and you will never
hear of her again? Never again. As if you were dead!
        You felt like this as a child when you saw two grown-
                                                         77
     This Business of Living
ups gazing at each other, shy and shamefaced but blissfully
content. In those days you didn't quite understand what they
were thinking of doing, and you were not thirty years old.
You're just the same now, except that you know the dreadful
truth behind their embraces, and you are thirty. You will
never grow up.
        Didn't you once act just as badly yourseH? Remember
how you got rid of E. . . . But there are two sides to every·
thing. Was it for moral reasons you threw her over, or out of
cowardice?
        A consoling thought: what matters is not what we do,
but the spirit in which we do it. Others suffer too; so much
so that there is nothing in the world but suffering; the prob.
lem is simply to keep a clear conscience. Kant's philosophy is
senseless and gloomy: if God does not exist, everything is
permissible. Morality is not enough; the only creed worthy of
respect is compassion-charity to one's neighbor. The teaching
of Christ and Dostoievsky. All the rest is nonsense.
        The moral is shrewdness. Charity is only towards your·
seH. But charity is a euphemism for the annihilation of self.

26th January
        (Another sleepless night.) When women are God-
fearing, people call them sanctimonious hypocrites. Other
women claim intellectual freedom, which merely serves to in·
crease their price.

Ist February
       It is easy to be good when one is not in love.

2nd February
       The women who are most careful to choose a rich
lover are those who protest that money means nothing to
them. Because, to despise money, one must have plenty of it.
       Would you like to know what a woman thinks of when
you propose to her? Read Moll Flanders.
    78
                                                         1938

3rd February
         Oh, my dearest. In spite of these months of horror; in
spite of this senseless, unintentional destruction of every in~
centive that remained to a poor wretch who knows only how
to suffer; in spite of the waste of all the good things we could
still have had by going ori living together; in spite of all the
harm she has done me-l still yearn for her in her sadness,
her helplessness; I love her body and her brooding eyes, all
her futile, eager efforts, her radiant past as a penniless beauty
in love with life. Poor little girl; let this be my farewell to you,
my prayer for you.

5th February
       Why should this numb, deep--seated cheerfulness surge
up through the veins and into the throat of a man who has
made up his mind to kill himself? Face to face with death,
nothing remains but the blunt consciousness that we are still
alive.

gth February
         The origin of all violence between man and man, and
for all that between man and woman, lies in the fact that only
very rarely do they agree on the value of a fact, a thought, a
state of mind: what is a tragedy for one is a joke to the other.
And even if at first they are both disposed to take a situation
seriously, it always happens-since there is always some slight
difference in their intensity-that the more serious one exag-
gerates his concern and the less serious one tends to make light
of it, because of that love of eurhythmy, coherence, "absolute-
ness," which every man has within himself.
         A man might be able to escape that destiny if he knew
how to hold himself aloof and exhaust all his demands within
the closed circle of his own person. But we are so made that
even our most intimate emotions are affected by our need for
other people's approval. Even those who live most alone are
                                                           79
        This Business of Living
moved by a response from a fellow being, and throw them-
selves into their work with increased enthusiasm, increased ex-
clusiveness, as if to create a multiple solitude of souls. That is
why one can never sufficiently persuade a man who is con-
vinced of the essential loneliness of his fellow men, to lose
himself in innumerable social entanglements, for they have
little attraction for him.
          True loneliness, when one has to endure it, brings with
it a desire to kill.

15th February
        How many times have we made this sound and good
resolution to "stand on our own feet and be self-sufficient,-
to act as though everything was just beginning, but with the
indescribable advantage of knowing every little move? And
how many times have we fallen short? Let us see why. We
have fumed at our solitude, and consequently been totally
incapal:lle of taking advantage of it. One should be calm and
alert in its presence; occupied in solitude, be the rock and no
longer the wave. Re-create the inner soundness you possessed
in '33, while in your boat. Fill your secret reserves with fresh
sap. Yield, make no demands, wait. You know where every
impulse leads. Master all those that would carry you into
situations you know and despise. If you cannot do that, you
will never do anything.

I 6th February
           I am glad that I have always expected something from
 Pinelli.'! With his Ippogrifo .• he shows an understanding of
many modern trends that he used to seem unaware of, and he
is sensitive to the rhythm of the city. This technique has infinite
possibilities. It allows one to tell a story with all the concise-
ness of a scene in a play. It corresponds with the cinema.
           It is fine to see that, underneath this vitality, he re-
mains a Catholic; or, rather, that his faith is his very backbone.
t   Tullio Pinelli, a writer who had been a fellow student of Pavese. Ed.
       80
                                                      1938
But it is futile; at all periods of history, only people of good
sense are truly modern.
        We have our weaknesses. We are convinced that no
man can alter his own make-up, his personal equipment. We
try, with what cunning we have, to change our weaknesses into
something of value. But what if one has no cunning in one's
make-up?
        You like things to be absolute, complete? You cannot
construct a totalitarian love affair. You can build a totalitar-
ian goodness. But don't play the fool: keep sex out of it.

 r 7th February
         The moral judgments in Madame Bovary ignore every
principle except that of the artist wlio violates and dwells on
every human action. Some people revel in the way Madame
Bovary depicts love, taking it for a sound criticism of romantic
rubbish, put forward by a robust conscience, and they do not
see that this robust conscience is nothing more than a close
scrutiny and a showy parade of sordid human emotions. How
could one live on the lines of Madame Bovary? In one way
only: by aping the artist shut up indoors.
         Be careful not to take seriously Flaubert's reviews of
reality. They are based on no other principle but this: all is
filth, except the conscientious artist.

rgth February
       Those philosophers who believe in the absolute logic of
truth have never had to discuss it on close terms with a woman.

2oth February
        If you have to lose your dearest love, would you not
rather she died, instead of simply going away and living
somewhere else? Can we endure that she who was our whole
life should cease to be so for us and become so for others, or
for herself? Even supposing the distance is such as to preclude
every possibility of her return, of a fresh start?
                                                        81
    This Business of Living
        You have never been able to put up a barrier in your
own life, and you want to channel and describe the lives of
others?
        You have chewed over the things of the spirit (art,
morality, dignity, knowledge) long enough to leave the taste
of them in your mouth, and then you have gone back to your
bread and potatoes.
        You are always forgetting that you were born a slave.
You think you are always being wronged. But can a slave be
wronged?
        Kindness that is shown because we are weary of suf-
fering is something more horrible than the suffering itself.

2 Ist February
        Why be jealous? He doesn't see in her what I saw
myself. In all probability he sees nothing. One might as well
be jealous of a dog or the water in a swimming pool. In any
case, water is more all-pervading than any lover.
        Why has almost everyone been deluded by love? Simply
because they fell in love so eagerly that it was bound to play
them false, by the law that lets us have only what we ask for
with indifference.

2grd February
        One must have cunning, to gain tragic love. But it is
precisely those who are incapable of cunning who thirst for
tragic love.

25th February
        When there comes a pause in a tumult of passion, as
today (the last, perhaps?), the desire to write poetry is reborn.
In the slow lassitude of a silent collapse is born a wish to
write prose.
        The violent, exhausting ending of a passion is like your
arrival at Brancaleone. You looked around you, dazed and
battered, and you saw space, a few houses, a low, sandy beach,
    82
                                                      1938
all in sharp, tender colors, like a rose on a rough-hewn wall.
And you breathed a sigh of relief.
        They were fine, those first days. But then? As soon as
you realized you were alone?
         You must confess you have thought and written many
banalities in your little diary, these past months. I agree, but
is anything more commonplace than death?
         A lover's reasoning: if I were dead, she would go on
living, laughing, trying her luck. But she has thrown me over
and still does all those things. Therefore I am as dead.

Ist March
       Glamis hath murdered sleep.

5th March
        To avenge a wrong done to you, is to rob yourself of
the comfort of crying out against the injustice of it.
        Love interests the loved one by reason of the things
it brings with it. The man who devotes himself to loving sin-
cerely, utterly, has hardly ever had time in his life to acquire
the things (riches, power, influence) that would make his
love acceptable. As for love itself, no one knows what to make
of it. And let us be fair: what is love, in itself, that is more
than the libido of an ape?

toth March
        When a man is suffering people treat him like a drunk-
ard: "Get up, now; come on; that's enough; be on your way;
not like that; that's it...."

23rd March
        No one ever lacks a good reason for suicide.
        What you could not do when you were twenty-five
with all your strength intact, how can you possibly do now you
are thirty and full of failure?
                                                        83
    This Business of Living
         To get someone to love you out of pity, when love is
born only of admiration, that's a really pitiful idea.
         This much is clear: you will never succeed in estab-
lishing yourself in the world (with a job, a normal way of
life) ; never win a woman's love (or a man's friendship), as
much for the above weakness as for another you know of;
never become obsessed by one of those ideas worth dying for,
as you know from past experience; and you will never have
the courage to kill yourself. Look how many times you have
thought of it.

26th March
         What use has this long love affair been?
         It has uncovered all my shortcomings, tested my qual-
ity, passed judgment on me. Now I see the reason why I
isolated myself until '34· Subconsciously I knew that for me
love would be. a massacre.
         Nothing is salvaged.•.• Conscience is shattered: look
at my letters and homicidal temptations. My character is
warped: look at my imprisonment. The illusion of my genius
has vanished: look at my stupid book and my translator-
traitor's mentality. Even the hardihood of the ordinary man
in the street is lacking. At thirty I cannot earn a living.
         I have reached the point of hoping for salvation from
outside myself, and nothing can be more obscure than that.
I still think that, with her, I could have battled on, but she
herself dealt with that illusion and laughed in my face.
         ". . . We are full of vices, eccentricities and horrors,
we men, the fathers ...."
         Exactly. Only we haven't even been a father.
         Even physically I am no longer the same.
         Still, many men have been destroyed by love. Am I
 perhaps so handsome that it shouldn't have happened to me?
Now it is no longer a choice between survival and deciding
to take the plunge; but between taking the plunge alone--as
 I have always lived-or taking a victim with me so that the
world will remember.
     84
                                                       1938
        To be thinking like this every day, every day from
morning till night! No one believes it, naturally. Perhaps this
is my real special quality, not genius, not goodness, not any-
thing else. To be so obsessed by this feeling that not a single
cell in my whole body is unaffected.
         That's really the ultimate thing to be proud of: no one
else could have endured such torture for nine months. Any
other man would ,have already killed her by now.
         The thing we secretly dread the most always happens.
         When I was a little boy I used to tremble to think
what it would be like to love someone and see her married to
 another. I exercised my mind with that thought. And you
see!

27th March
         I remember spending one Sunday brooding over the
idea, like a fly caught in a web, till my mind, my very soul,
was utterly distracted and I shook with rage, feeling the grip
of Fate's iron hand or soothed now and then by a faint,
vague hope of a less atrocious future.
         I notice that pain stuns, dazes and crushes. Every
tentacle I once used to sense, test and barely touch the world
is like a gangrenous stump. I spend my day like someone who
has bumped into a knob and hit the nerve of his knee: the
whole day like that unbearable instant. The pain is in my
chest, which seems caved in. The blood draining out as if
I had a gaping wound.
         Naturally it is all a fixation. But, by God, that is why I
am alone. Tomorrow I shall have a brief happiness, and then
the quivers of anguish will come again, the feeling of con-
striction or of being torn apart. I no longer have the physical
strength to remain alone. I did manage to, once, but then I
 had a relapse and, like all relapses, it was fatal.
         Another source of suffering aggravates my condition,
 like a person cut in two who still has a toothache. It is that I
 could write a letter like the one of February 2nd about the
 scab. What was my life like then? Was it worth it to be so
                                                           85
    This Business of Living
abject. What did I gain by it? More wounds, more gangrene,
more ridicule.
        I must be mad. Over and over again I ask myself:
what wrong did I ever do to her? Courage, Pavese. Take
courage.... There is one good thing. No one else is affected
by your collapse. That's something in your favor.

25th April
       When one has made a mistake, one says: "Another
time I shall know what to do," when what one should say
is: "I already know what I shall really do another time."

6th May
        There's a cure for everything. Think about the last
night you spent in prison. Take a deep breath, look around
your cell, grow a little sentimental over its walls, its bars, the
dim light coming in through the window, the noises you hear
all around you, that now seem to belong to another world.
        Why does the thought of your cell make you sad?
Because it has become a personal thing, your very own. But
if someone were to tell you suddenly that there has been a
mistake and you will not go out tomorrow but stay there
indefinitely, would you still be as serene?
        Let us be frank. If Cesare Pavese were to appear before
you, talk to you, try to make friends with you, are you sure
you would not find him objectionable? Would you feel con·
fidence in him, be willing to go out for a gay evening in his
company?

IIth May
        Consider how many things please and stimulate you
simply because you find them strange and somehow shocking.
Not so much with people but in nature. The garden, striped
like a tiger; the little clouds in spring; the downward sweep
from Turin to the plain of the Dora; the smell of gas among
the trees bordering a road.
        Basically, all the delirious pleasure you find in your
    86
                                                     1938
walks comes from your appreciation of the bizarre. "There
is no excellent beauty that hath not some strangeness. • • ."
The secret lies in that "strangeness." But the phrase continues:
" •.• in the proportion." That is to say: there must be some-
thing striking and unexpected in the way the elements of
beauty are assembled, not in the elements themselves, which
are often commonplace. To discover merely that there is a
strangeness in certain things is easy and means nothing. You
must find something strange in their association. That will
teach· you to recognize the bizarre, and show you how that
quality of strangeness can spring to life and persist even amid
universal, commonplace dullness.
        Indisputably, art is wholly concerned with "the mar-
velous," or, better still, with "pointing out marvels." If one
is awed by the "how'' and not by the "what," one can always
be as awed as one likes.

tgth May
        Since God could have created a freedom in which
there could be no evil (i.e., a state when men were happy and
free and certain not to sin), it follows that He wished evil to
exist. But evil offends Him. A commonplace case of maso-
chism.
       Don't forget that the poet is concerned with the
"how," not with the "why." "You fooled X; you will fool
me; then Y; like him, me, and so on."
       Friday the thirteenth-beyond question, we are no
longer children.

t6th May
       Turning over the pages of Lavorare stanca again, you
feel quite depressed. The construction is lax and there are
no moments of sufficient intensity to justify describing it as
"poetry." Where are those celebrated flights of fancy that were
to be the whole imaginative structure of the work? Was it
worthwhile to spend six years of your life composing it, from
twenty-four to thirty? In your place I should be ashamed.
                                                        87
    This Business of Living

24th May
       It is a fine thing when a young fellow of eighteen or
twenty stops to think about his own confused state of mind,
clenches his fists and tries to grasp reality. But it is not so
good to be doing it at thirty. And doesn't it tum you cold to
think you will still be doing it at forty or later?

26th May
        The only period when you found rich veins of material
was in the years from six to fifteen. Then stories and poems
full of maturity and atmosphere came readily to your mind,
and the reason is this. During those years you were living in
the world, apathetic as a calf but aware of the world around
you. Your ego took an interest in your practical contacts with
the world, but left intact the current of sympathy between
yourself and things.
        At fifteen, your ego emerged from that simple, un-
complicated way of life and began to pass judgment on the
world, even though until then you knew it merely as an on-
looker. And everything became sterile, confused, sensual.
        The problem of how to emerge from your present,
thirty-year-old adolescence is this: you must regard the strat-
agems of manhood with a practical eye, just as a child views
childish things; but plunge yourself, equally artlessly, into a
current of sympathy for this vile world.
        The only reason why we are always thinking of our
own ego is that we have to live with it more continuously than
with anyone else's.
        Talking of those "veins of material" : out of all your
 many childhood experiences, you chose certain ones with a
family resemblance, midway between dreams and harsh reality,
 and you chose them during the long development of your
 adolescent years. How was that? They, and they alone, re-
 peatedly come back to mind. You cannot stop dreaming of
 them. But were your tastes already formed when you chose
 them, or did they determine what your tastes would be? The
     88
                                                        1938
usual answer, that they were born together, doesn't seem to
me to mean much.

goth May
         When a thing depends on you alone it is sufficient to
want it badly enough and you get it. Anything that depends
 upon the consent of others is a do ut des, in which it is ab-
solutely essential to reveal no particular desire. Only by seem-
ing indifferent can you get what you want and keep it.
         Human intercourse is governed by the same laws that
apply to trading. To make good deals you must seem not to
care whether you do or not. Be frank with yourselves, mis-
leading to others.
         The only way to make a woman stay with you-if
that is what you want-is to place her in such a position that
public opinion, the respect of her own circle, and her self-
interest, all prevent her from going away. A man who thinks
he can hold her to him merely by his devotion and sincerity
is a fool. Make sure accepted customs are on yom; side: that's
the way to settle revolutions or keep women. Cast aside every
noble impulse and settle down as a righteous citizen, a fat
bourgeois. Look how all your acquaintances have found them-
selves good positions, enjoying their screwing, and their meals
even more. That pleases everybody.
         And such a man would be extremely surprised if you
were to cast any doubt on his willingness to sacrifice himself
for his ideals. The practical way of life is a matter of shrewd-
ness, nothing else. Like the high-minded shrewdness of the
engaged girl who feels she ought not to give herself to her
lover, lest he should jilt her.

31st May
        As long as you feel this bitterness within you, trying not
to daydream for fear of losing your reason, it is plain you
will do no more work. At least you must learn to like things,
if you are to create anything, live alone and produce some-
thing worth while. A man who hates someone is never alone.
                                                         89
     This Business of Living
The one he hates is always with him. But to like things you
must also like people. There's no way out of it. In fact, the
logical conclusion of your present state of mind is suicide.
Then do it, once and for all, or decide to forgive the world,
and the one who is all the world to you. Forgive her, then
you can be alone again-alone with her. You see! There's
calculation in that thought, too!
        Your attitude is completely false, that much is evident
from the terror you feel at the thought of her death, her
suicide. If you really hated her, the idea would make you
smile. But it horrifies you, therefore you do not hate her. Then
forgive her. Be the man you have always pretended to be,
and find peace.

2nd June
         In sexual matters it seems to me that the man, having
satisfied himself, grows calm and detached; the woman then
responds more warmly, to arouse his desire anew. The reason
for this natural fact is that the woman always tries to leave
the man with his desires unsatisfied, so as to keep him bound
to her. It would be pointless for a man to refuse himself to a
woman in the hope of binding her to him.
         Furthermore, a woman finds her peace in conception,
in carrying her child; but a man who did not find peace in
the simple act of coition would never find it at all.

grd June
        When writing poetry, it is not inspiration that produces
a bright idea, but the bright idea that kindles the fire of in-
spiration.
        In summer and in springtime, along the avenues, in
the cafes, through the arcades, the elegant women strolling up
and down always make me think of the beauties of ancient
Babylon or Alexandria. Probably it is all the effect of their
make-up, their crimson fingernails, their bare legs glowing
from the sun, their atmosphere of serenity and leisure, but
     90
                                                      1938
there is something barbaric and exotic about them that, to
my mind, is exactly typical of those two civilizations.

7th June
        It is dangerous to be too angelic: when the world
treats you as it has always (and legitimately) treated angels,
with cruelty or off-hand amusement, you at once become the
worst and most depraved of demons. One, for instance, who,
incapable of doing harm, takes a whole day to kill a rabbit,
because every now and then he stops to reproach himself, and
doesn't go on until he convinces himself that the whimpering
rabbit is making a fuss about nothing. Nothing is more warped
than a fallen angel.
        Among the other profound teachings of Christianity,
include this: real evil comes from someone who once was
good, not from a spirit that has been wicked from all eternity
and so cannot possibly grow more malignant but will, one
fine day, shrivel to nothing from its own corruption. One
confirmation of this is the tradition that says Nero, as a youth,
but for his hypocrisy and affectation, was a positive Saint
Louis.
        What a shame that all this is just romantic interpre-
tation (the Pirate, the avengeful Bandit), as worthless as all
the things you discover.
        What has happened to you so far, should have hap-
pened before you were twenty. That's the only unusual thing
about you, not genius or anything like that. In this discrepancy
between your potential and actual experience of life lies the
reason for your apparent fertility at twenty-five and your
present decadence. Countless things passed you by in those
years, and you tried to make up for them by your passionate
devotion to solitude and poetry. Now you have had these
experiences, but too late for you to be still capable of judging
their solid worth. You have twisted everything around.
   Naturally, though, such a prejudicial state of affairs did
not come about by chance, but from your own initial deafness
                                                        91
      This Business of Living
to the call of life that, at twenty, confused your sense of values
and made you seek out unfamiliar things in an unusually tor-
tuous way. But he who seeks, finds; our experiences spring
from within us, and the adventures we have are those we
choose to have.
         The sublimation and "angelification" of women in the
Stile Nuovo, was it not simply a method of ridding oneself of
the need to bother about them? One paid homage, and then
was free to give one's mind to more serious, vital things.
         Death is repose, but the thought of death disturbs all
repose.
         I am at least eight years behind my contemporaries.
Normally they, at twenty-two, are convinced of things I am
still undecided about at thirty.
         It is ridiculous to suppose that one's vital relationship
with another person can ever change.

uth June
        I notice I have almost stopped expressing resentment
towards her. I think that is a good sign of perseverance.
        Even something harsh and difficult is a comfort if we
choose it ourselves. If it is imposed on us by others, it is agony.
         It is an old truism, but I am pleased to have redis-
covered it for myself. Believe only in the love that costs a
sacrifice~ the rest, in the majority of cases, is nothing but
empty words. Even Christ, our divine example, asks no less
from mankind.
         From a man who is not ready-1 do not say to shed
his blood for you (that is a quick and easy thing to do )-but
to bind himself to you for life, renewing his dedication every
day, you should not accept even a cigarette.
         My darling, one does not play jokes on children. I was
a child, too (for the first month) .

12th June
       The third afternoon since she died.
       A heroic, not voluptuous, life.
      92
                                                       1938
        If poetry comes more rarely from me now, that does
not mean it is ended, but that I am less easily satisfied as to
subjects and their treatment.
        All our "most sacred affections" are merely prosaic
habit.

13th June
        Could anything be more in the pure style of Alfieri
than this letter? Does this account reveal my whole attitude?
And all my ravings, outbursts, rantings? It is the story of
Saul over again; it wasn't worth the trouble of being born
in a later century.
        For me, the French Revolution is still to come, and
when it comes it will disgust me.

16th June
         There is a type of man who cannot bear to leave any
woman who has made him jealous without banging the door
in her face. I do not think this is out of spite. It is simply his
need to do, loudly and thoroughly, something that would
otherwise seem half-hearted and indecisive.
         It is out of weakness: concentrating on the external
signs of the parting-harsh words, insults, blows, scandals-
out of sheer distrust of one's own inner resolution. It is out of
fear, the dread of being made to look a fool, the thought that
now things will be as they were before the affair started, that
all the suffering the separation has caused will be a dead loss.
It is not out of evil spite, but certainly it can lead to wicked-
ness, if all wickedness is born of frustrated ambition.
         With your definition of sacrifice-living with someone
and never turning away from them-the result is that you
wrong anyone who wants nothing to do with you. But why,
after all, should one make sacrifices?
         Don't you see that-if you indeed reject a sane and
normal moral structure-what is left is the cult of morality,
shorn of every point of application, historical or transcendent,
i.e., mere rhetoric.
                                                          93
     This Business of Living

17th June
         The effect of mental suffering (humiliation, grief) is
to create a barbed-wire fence in your mind, to compel your
thoughts to keep away from certain areas and so avoid the
agonies that reign there. In this sense, suffering limits spiritual
efficiency.
         To say that, when the suffering is over, your faculties
will have grown stronger is not so gloriously true, after all.
Primarily because there will always remain a certain numbness
in that area, a tendency to avoid the bad patch; then because,
if nothing is gained while suffering lasts, how can anything be
gained later, when one is normal again?
         The fact is that all you have gained is experience, the
most vague and futile thing there is. As for your intellectual
caliber, that can only be weakened. No character, after suffer-
ing grief, has the same quality it had before; just as no physical
body, after being wounded, is as healthy as before, though
there may be a hardening, a callosity.
        All these great spiritual teachers talk, in the last analy-
sis, of material results: ideas about oneself, about life, the
maxims to follow, etc. Efficiency, the temper of the material,
the ''span of the bridge"-all those things, as anyone can
plainly see, have only a limited activity when subjected to
strain-to sorrow or pain, for instance. And when they once
again have free rein, they do not even have the advantage of
being reinvigorated by their rest, for suffering is wearying and
wearing, even when one does not give it free play.

2oth June
         It is worth noting that, once we are adult, we do not
learn new ways of doing good, or being good, only of doing
evil and being wicked. In that, yes, we never finish learning.
Why? Perhaps because our most earnest desire for goodness
does not go beyond our remembered innocence as children.
I say "remembered," because in actual fact we were probably
little beasts, even then.
    94
                                                      1938

22nd June
        The world lives by craft, and gets on very well. Only
the crafty ones know how to indulge in sharp practice and
get away with it. A man who is penalized by this state of
affairs and decides to be a bit of a swine himself to get his
own ba k, must not forget that from then on he should always
be crafty, otherwise his single lapse will serve only to torment
him by its very contrast with his normal non-craftiness. His
error is in running counter to his own custom. It disrupts his
balance. Hence it comes about that when a man has done
wrong (something that troubles his conscience, otherwise it
is no wrong), all his personal life seems called into
question.
        Advice to wrongdoers: never stop halfway, but im-
merse yourself in it completely; make a habit of this changed
course, see things in quite a different light, especially your
own past.
        It may seem the contrary, but what most horrifies any
man is to wake up in the morning, different than he was the
night before. He loses the sense of his own structure.
        What is the difference between a crime that is actually
accomplished and one that is brooded over, savored, gloried
in but not committed? This: the first is a fact and cannot be
undone, while the second leaves us with the illusion that our
character is unaffected. We ought to feel the same prick of
conscience in both cases, the same remorse, but we do not,
because in the second case nothing hinders us from reverting
to what we were before. However, Christianity expresses its
view of the matter in no uncertain terms: "he who looks on a
woman to lust after her has already committed adultery...."
        In short: a good conscience is nothing else but the
expression of a desire we all have-to be ourselves and feel
comfortable. Those who tell petty, occasional lies suffer far
more than great criminals, simply because the latter are thor-
oughly used to it.
        When we feel remorse for an evil action, it is not the
                                                        95
     This Business of Living
hann done to others that troubles us but the disquiet it brings
on ourselves. ( Cf. Rasknolnikoff.)
        The art of living, granted that living means making
others suffer (as we do in our sexual life, commerce and every
other activity), lies in developing an aptitude for playing all
sorts of dirty tricks without letting them disturb our own peace
of mind. A natural capacity for guile is the best endowment
any man can have.

23rd June
        The fin..e fonnula "I must not," that by its very finality
seems the most certain sign of an exaltation of imperative
morality, what more is it than an efficacious ellipsis, implying
full consideration of a complex calculation?

8th July
        "He has found a purpose in life in his children." So
that they in turn may find the same in theirs? But what point
is there in this endless procreation? We care so little about
other people that even Christianity urges us to do good for
the love of God. Man prefers to punch his fellow man in the
mouth, and is such a fool that to give himself an object in life
he has to produce a son.

gth July
        In any course of action it is not a good sign if a man
starts with a detennination to succeed in it, for that implies
rivalry, pride, ambition. He should begin by loving the tech·
nique of any activity for its own sake, as one lives for the sake
of living. That alone shows a true vocation and promises gen·
uine success. All the social passions imaginable can follow
later to amplify that single-minded love of technique-in that
way they are bound to come-but to begin with them is a
sign of indolence. In brief, one must devote oneself to an
activity as if there were nothing else in the world. The moment
of significance is when one begins, and the things of the world
     96
                                                        1938
(social passions) do not exist in respect of that activity. Any
one of us is capable of devoting himself to a work when he
knows what he will get out of it; it is difficult to devote oneself
gratuitously.

13th July
        A sin is something that inflicts remorse.
        It is natural that the selfsame things may be a sin for
one man and not for another (Cf. 5th May, '36): if one feels
no remorse, that is enough. What are we to do? Do as I said
on 22nd June, '38. Get it out of your head that remorse is an
absolute reality that infallibly descends upon us. Only specially
educated consciences can feel it at all. In that case one could
be so educated as not to feel it. They say that to feel remorse
for countless little acts that the uninitiated would never notice
is a guarantee of inner quality, an inner richness. But is it
true? Cannot one conceive an inner richness that does not lead
to the rejection of states of conscience, but accepts them all
for what they are, even those that usually give rise to remorse?
But this is a sophism, for if any state of conscience, no matter
what, is an enrichment, then a state of remorse is also an en-
richment, and we are back where we started.
         But if we speak of enrichment, we are speaking of
 pleasure. Then we shall say that even the state of remorse is
 welcome, not in itself (for, like all suffering-d. I 7th June--
 it makes one poorer, limits one's movement, turns one to
 stone), but as a premise of the pleasure given by repentance,
 and by the determined choice, from then on, of new, good
 actions that will cause no more remorse.
         The fact remains, however, that this stipulation ("only
 actions that will cause no more remorse") seems to tie our
 hands and so leave us poorer.
         Which is not to say that, if remorse and relative com-
 punction and a !"esolution to do good are a positive step for-
 ward (an enrichment), it seems that we ought to sin so as to
 mount that particular step towards inner richness.
                                                           97
     This Business of Living
        Conclusion: in fact it is permissible to sin in ways one
has not heard of, with a view to making discoveries, for that
will bring us remorse and consequently to resolutions new to
us ( = an enrichment).
        It is a sin only when we do again some act that has
already caused us remorse and inspired us to make new resolu-
tions, because, having enriched us once, it cannot do so a
second time. Right?

14th July
       To understand why a woman seems thoughtful, em-
barrassed and apologetic when she is with several young men,
think how you feel yourself among five or six prostitutes, all
watching you and waiting for you to make your choice.

22nd July
       Beware of the man who is never in a temper.
       Once the first line of a story is written, the whole is
already decided-style, atmosphere and the sequence of events.
After that it is a question of patience. All the rest should, and
must, develop out of that first line.

28th July
         The motive force in every plot is simply this: To dis-
cover how such and such a character extricates himself from
a given situation. Which means that every plot is invariably
an exercise in optimism, in so far as it is a research into how
a character responds. It goes without saying that even if he
fails, that is still a reaction. If the failure is the author's fault,
if, that is, he did not manage to get out of the difficulty, the
unspoken question arises as to what he should have done to
bring matters to a successful conclusion. Here is the message in
every plot: this is how one ought, or ought not, to act. It
follows that if immoral works exist, they are works in which
there is no plot.
         Modern art, which seems to avoid a plot, simply sub-
      98
                                                       1938
stitutes for it an artless account of current affairs, a host of
infinitesimal details about domestic incidents; instead of char-
acters it has one character only, the average man, who can be
any one of us and, indeed, is, under the old clumsy psycho-
logical classifications.
        The highest peak of this art is attained by a cunning
device. Instead of the "average man," presented as an excep-
tional hero (as in the first period of modem art), the vogue
now is to take for our hero an extraordinary character and
present him in his normal state, his "averageness." In that
way the old conventional classificatic;ms are avoided; the writer
chooses an abnormal, pathological hero (that being the com-
mon conception of "extraordinary"), and follows his activi-
ties with a sort of uncritical homeliness (Faulkner? O'Neill?
Proust?).

7th August
       A really lovely bosom consists of the entire chest, cul-
minating in two peaks whose roots spring from the ribs. They
are beautiful additions, but beneath them lies the chest.

28th August
         The subtle charm of convalescence is that we return
to our old habits with the illusion of discovering them for the
first time.
         The thing to do with our incorrigible faults is to make
a virtue of them. I very much like acting to myself, and I
can make good this stupid waste of effort by learning to throw
myself into the part of some humble character or other and
see what the natural development may be. Fundamentally,
this is a foretaste of poetry.

goth August
        The great thing about Vico-apart from the fact of
his being well-known-is this carnal feeling that poetry is born
of all historical life; inseparable from religion, politics and
                                                         99
     This Business of Living
economics; lived "popularly" by a whole people before be-
coming a stylized myth, a mental conception of a whole
culture.
         In particular, the feeling that one must have a special
disposition ( "poetical logic" ) to be able to write it.
         This, in fact, is still the theory that best revives and
explains the creative epochs of poetry; the mystery whereby,
at a given moment, all the vital forces of a nation surge up
in the form of myths and visions.
         My stories are always about love or loneliness. For me,
there seems no way of escaping from loneliness except by
"picking up" a girl. Possibly nothing else interests me? Or
is it that the erotic association is more easily successful when
I link it in my mind with mythology instead of with any par-
ticular person?

I 7th September
         What matters to an artist is not experience, but inward
experience.
         An argument they put forward is that a man takes
refuge in solitude in order to sin.
         Is it a comfort to reflect that weakness may be a
strength, just as those who are always ailing never seem sub-
ject to serious illness?
         As the years go by, the skull becomes more noticeable
behind the face of every man.
         What, for Svevo, is senility, to me seems adolescence.
         A Christian would say that in seeking pleasure one
discovers instead one's own shortcomings. The providential
function of pleasure-seeking is to make a man forget prudence.
Hurling himself against the walls of his cell teaches him to be
humble. It is only by avid pleasure-seeking that a man learns
what grief is.
         The proofs of the existence of God do not lie primarily
in the harmony of the universe, in the marvelous balance of
 everything, in the wonderful colors of flowers, but in man's
lack of harmony with his surroundings, his capacity for suf-
      100
                                                        1938
fering. Because, in brief, there is no reason why a man should
suffer in this world unless there is such a thing as moral respon-
sibility, that is to say, the capacity, indeed the duty, to give
significance to his suffering.

I8th September
        In one's dealings with other people, a moment of
candor is enough to ruin for us whole days of service to others.
Candor is not kindliness; not charity. It exposes our own ego-
tism and may cause offense. Charity, on the contrary, can
never take offense.

I gth   September
        Men who have a tempestuous inner life and do not
seek to give vent to it by talking or writing are simply men who
have no tempestuous inner life.
        Give company to a lonely man and he will talk more
than anyone.

21st September
        We ought not to complain if someone we dearly love
behaves now and then in ways we find distasteful, nerve-
racking or hurtful. Instead of grumbling we should avidly
hoard up our feelings of irritation and bitterness: they will
serve to alleviate our grief on the day when, in one way or
another, she has gone and we miss her.
        But that is helpful only up to a certain point. To have
something to blame on the one who has vanished does not
sweeten the grief of her disappearance, but complicates it.
The fact that she has made us suffer horribly does not loosen
the bonds that bind us to her; to our present bereavement it
adds an aching bitterness that can nevermore be relieved, a
torture of helpless inferiority, the seal of irretrievable loss.
        All sins have their origin in a sense of inferiority, other-
wise called ambition.
        The condensation of a novel does not consist of cram-
ming the details one into another like Japanese boxes. The
                                                          101
     This Business of Living
tone of it must preserve the flow of events as something that
comes about after due thought, over a reasonable period, and
must be full of the implications suggested by that spacing.
       A novel of the type of Due amici, one, that is, in which
matters of thought and feeling, all on the same moral level,
are implacably exposed, is an unhappy compromise with
play-writing, which watches psychological developments as
they occur, by means of its highly specialized "immediate"
technique. The province of story-writing, on the contrary, is
to rethink, reconsider events, some of which are highlighted,
some left in obscurity; not just letting them all happen under
the same unreal, diffused light.

22nd September
        At one time, giving a naturalistic touch in the second
line ("It was a cool day with a little fog") was enough to
start off pages and pages of ruthless naturalism; no longer
narrative but documentary; a work, that is, in which every
event is arranged on the level of that naturalistic touch, and
so cannot be reconsidered separately.
        Such opening statements serve a purpose only in the
case of a novel with a limited compass, dealing with a short,
clearly specified, period of time (Notte di festa) ; novels, in
short, which have a scenic quality and could be played on a
stage. In fact, on a stage everything happens in documentary
fashion, the decor and the actions taking the place of de-
scriptions.
        The true novel (Primo amore and Campo di grano)
treats time as a material, not as a limitation, shortening or
lengthening it as it chooses, in no way concerned with stage
directions, which are the time and vision of real life; rather,
it resolves the temporal atmosphere into an impulse (a fun-
damental thesis or creative idea) of construction (time and
space seen in perspective or reconsidered) .
        Every man over thirty identifies his youth with the
worst fault he thinks he has discovered in himself. (Cf. 31st
October, '37.)
     101
                                                     1938

2gth September
        I shall have to stop priding myself on being unable to
find pleasure in the things ordinary men enjoy-high days and
holidays; the fun of being one of a crowd; family affection
and so on. What I am really incapable of is enjoying out·of-
the-ordinary pleasures-solitude and a sense of mastery, and
if I am not very good at sharing the sentiments of the average
man it is because my artless assumption that I was capable of
something better has rusted my natural reactions, which used
to be perfectly normal. In general we feel rather pleased with
ourselves when we do not enjoy common pleasures, believing
this means that we are "capable of better things." But in-
capacity in the one case does not presuppose capacity in the
other. A man who is incapable of writing nonsense may be
equally incapable of writing something pleasing.
        We hate the thing we fear, the thing we know may be
true and may have a certain affinity with ourselves, for each
man hates himself. The most interesting, most fertile qualities
in every man are those he most hates in himself and in others,
for hatred includes every other feeling-love, envy, ignorance,
mystery, the urge to know and to possess. It is hate that causes
suffering. To overcome hatred is to take a step towards self-
knowledge, self-mastery, self-justification, and consequently
towards an end of suffering. When we suffer, it is always our
own fault.

3rd October
        We know many things that, in our everyday life, do
not work out in the way we might expect. The man of action
is not the headstrong fool who rushes into danger with no
thought for himself, but the man who puts into practice the
things he knows. Similarly, a poet is not a vague dreamer, but
a keen mind bringing to life with his own special skill the
things he knows.
        From what I wrote on 29th September it follows that
hate is necessary. Every contact with a new reality begins
                                                       103
    This Business of Living
with antipathy. Hate is an essential preliminary to knowledge.
Diffidence and reluctance do not amount to hatred, except
in so far as they go outside the sphere of interest and become
an aversion to facing something unknown, which in every case
they do, more or less.
        ( Cf. 2 Ist September, IV.) The difficulty about time,
in a story, lies in transforming material time, monotonous and
crude, into imaginary time in such a way as to retain the same
consistency as before.
        The eternal falsity of poetry is that its events occur
in a time that differs from reality.

5th October
        You cannot insult a man more atrociously than by
refusing to believe he is suffering.
        In the same way that we do not think about other
men's sorrow, we can avoid thinking of our own.

gth October
        The art of discovering trivial motives to bring ourselves
to accomplish the important deeds we have to do. The art
of never letting ourselves be discouraged by the reactions of
other people, bearing in mind that the value of a sentiment is
a matter·for our personal decision, since it is we who will feel
it, not anyone else. The art of lying to ourselves, knowing that
we lie. The art of looking all men (ourselves included)
squarely in the face as though they were characters in one
of our own novels. The art of remembering that, though we
count for nothing and so does every other man, we count for
more than anyone else, simply because we are ourselves. The
art of regarding a woman like a loaf of bread: a problem of
cleverness. The art of plunging like a thunderbolt into the
depths of grief in order to rise above it on the rebound. The art
of putting ourselves in another man's place and so learning
that each is concerned only with himself. The art of attributing
 any action of ours to someone else, to see at once whether it
is a sensible thing to do.
         The art of dispensing with art. The art of being alone.
     104
                                                      1938

1oth October
       Naturally you consider that the most hateful man you
know eats enough for four and thoroughly enjoys life; you
agree he has the loveliest wife and lives with her in perfect
harmony; he has a beautiful home and excellent taste; is a
happy father, holds an important position in the world and
enjoys a reputation for fair dealing. Furthermore, you must
concede him the pleasure of feeling unhappy now and then,
supremely unhappy, so that he can feel noble in his suffering.
What, then, can you deny this most hateful of men? You can
deny him nothing whatever.
        Immoderate laughter is a sign of weakness, just as
much as weeping. They both leave you utterly exhausted. In
general, everything that robs you of your senses is a sign of
weakness. The greatest weakness of all is to die.

13th October
       If a woman does not betray you, it is because it does
not suit her convenience.
        Every luxury must be paid for, and everything is a
luxury, starting with being in the world.
        It is stupid to grieve for the loss of a girl friend: you
might never have met her, so you can do without her.
        Religion consists of believing that everything- that
happens is extraordinarily important. It can never disappear
from the world, precisely for this reason.
        It is not true that death comes upon us as an experi-
ence in which we are all novices ( Montaigne). Before being
born we were all dead.

15th October
        Certainly, by suffering one can learn many things.
Unfortunately, suffering robs us of the strength to make use
of them, and merely knowing them is less than nothing.
       To accept suffering (Dostoievsky) is, in essence, a way
of not suffering. So .... When a man sacrifices himself, is it
not with the purpose of alleviating someone else's suffering?
                                                        105
      This Business of Living
Which amounts to saying: it is all right for me to suffer,
provided others do not. But if every man took care not to
suffer himself, would that not be a more efficient method?
        But Dostoievsky's theory is that one ceases to suffer only
by accepting it. And it seems that one can accept suffering
only by sacrificing oneself.
        In such matters, the error lies in trying to take a
longer steps than one's legs can manage. One accepts suffering
 (resignation) , and then realizes that all there is to it is that
one has suffered. It has done us no good, and other people
are not in the least concerned. So we grit our teeth and grow
cynical. The thing that always hurts us most is to feel we
have been fooled, to see our suffering denied, rendered of no
account. (Cf. 5th October, '38.)

I6th October
        It is not the actual enjoyment of pleasure that we
desire. What we want is to test the futility of that pleasure,
so as to be no longer obsessed by it.

I8th October
       Describing nature in poetry, is like describing a lovely
heroine or a stalwart hero (as some writers do) .
       Success in anything, no matter what, is an act of
ambition--sordid ambition, so it is logical to resort to the most
sordid means.

Igth October
        While we are in pain, we believe that outside our circle
of suffering happiness exists. When we are not suffering, we
know that there is no such thing as happiness, so we feel even
sadder at having no pain to endure.
        Cosmic pessimism is a doctrine of consolation. It is
much worse for a man who believes in the ambivalence of the
existing order of things but finds himself unsuited to it, and
so condemned to suffer.
        There is a thing we call conscience, but it is not, as we
     106
                                                      1938
imagine, an omnipresent eye watching us: it is the protest
made by our seH~respect, which knows what our future opinion
will be of any deed we commit, and wants to prevent us from
putting ourselves in a position counter to the conclusions of
our own experience. Each man's conscience allows or forbids
different things, and with differing intensity. These variations
always result from experience.
        To pass judgment as to the morality of another man's
action is to reveal the uneasiness we should or should not feel
ourselves, if we, constituted as we are, had committed it. It is
not a matter of logic. How are we to know whether his
conscience is disturbed by it and to what degree, since an
experience is always incommunicable? Or, which comes to
the same thing, if disclosed it would change, because it would
merge with our own previous experience?
        An interesting experiment is attempted in Spoon River
Anthology, in which each dead man judges himseH on the
basis of his own experience. Rightly speaking, that idea is
obviously absurd, from what I have already said: it is the
writer himseH judging each of them according to his own
experience. But this is an absurdity that arises with any writer.
Naturally, all his dramatis personae are one and the same
character-the author. The interesting fact is that Lee Masters
views the world as a place where every man evolves, out of
his own experience, his own condemnation or justification.
        It is futile to add that, for each of us, the value we
attach to other people's opinions forms a part of our ex-
perience.

22nd October
        The character and the things pertaining to him are
always visualized as being real. There is no need to be afraid,
in the periods before imagination takes hold, of watching them
live and act. Instead, one should let them do all they can.
        At a certain point, go back over what they have done.
        (This means that style should have no influence on
the formation of the story: before the tale can exist at all,
                                                       107
    This Business of Living
there must be a nucleus of reality and of characters that have
already taken shape. Once that is settled, you can tackle the
main structure and break it up in the way you think best.
"Literature" is when style precedes the imaginative nucleus.
[See my comment confuting this on ~4th October.]
         The man who feels he must never display interest, and
has a horror of seeming interested in anything, will also be
detached in his dealings with relatives and friends, and will
 always shrink from joining with them in an organized bloc of
common interests, will cultivate a coolness towards them.
 Which means that indifference to material things leads to
seH"isolation and egotism.
         To resume. The epic poet believes that what he is
 telling really happened. The beginnings of a creation that
 knows itself to be a product of the imagination) are also the
 beginnings of "literature." In Greece, comedy and romance.
  (It goes without saying that there is "literature" in Homer,
 too.)
         In this connection it is appropriate to note Leopardi
 and the fact that great books are not written with the purpose
 of creating poetry. When one proposes to reproduce a reality,
 it is with the intent to employ this reality to some other end.
  In direct contrast, to give free rein to one's imagination and
  conjure up visions, means having the intention of creating
  poetry. And the advantage does not lie with the visionaries.
          (This, too, is refuted in my note for ~4th October.)

 23rd October
         Gertrude Stein's idea is that every human being po~
 sesses a certain energy; when that is used up, they "have
 had it." Here we see her medical training. She is catholic in
 the sense that all doctors are, fondly compiling rules. Like all
 the rest of them, she knows how to identify and diagnose a
 fundamental, matter-of-fact normality.
         She overlooks the drama of a man who admits, as she
 does, the "measurability" of every one, but will not resign
      108
                                                         1938
himseH to it; the drama of infinite will power. In her pages,
life is terribly clear. Instead of an awareness of things that
cannot be measured-fantasy, imagination, she brings us the
magic of a tranquil stream, the assurance that a rose is a rose
is a rose. "Then I am unfortunate through no fault of my own
or of life in general" is the ruling of this tragic "measurability,"
and once my energy is exhausted I can die in peace.

24th October
        Resuming my earlier train of thought. But now what
happens is that the mere presentation of an event and a
character is, in a baH-hearted way, a work of imaginative
creation, because the traditional concept of poetry is reduced
to such a presentation. To write with any other aim in view,
one now has to labor with the style, i.e., to try to create a way
of understanding life (time and its influence-·cf. 3rd October,
III), which shall be new knowledge. In this sense, my earlier
craze for making imagination the subject of the composition,
narrating the thought, getting away from naturalism, becomes
acceptable.
        This is not imagining, but knowing: knowing what
we are in reality. And this satisfies the need that what we are
to tell has really happened: then it remains true that only
what we think actually exists (our style, our time = the object
of our know ledge) is worth writing about. If we are aiming
at pointing out a new way of seeing things, and, therefore, a
new reality, it is evident that our style must be accepted as
 part of that truth, making its influence felt beyond the printed
page. Otherwise, what serious value would there be in our
discovery?
         (Which refutes my note in parenthesis on 22nd
October.)
         One must tell a story, knowing that the people in it
 have a given character, and that things will happen in accord-
 ance with predetermined laws, but the point of our story
 must lie neither in these characters nor in those laws.
                                                           109
     This Business of Living

25th October
         Human imagination is immensely poorer than reality.
If we think of the future, we always see it unrolling itself in a
monotonous progression. We forget that the past is a multi-
colored chaos of generations. This can help to console us for
the terrors inspired by the cctechnical and totalitarian bar-
barization## of the future. In the next hundred years it may
well happen that we have a sequence of at least three moments,
and the human spirit will be able to live consecutively in the
streets, in prison, and in the papers. The same can be said of
one's personal future.

26th October
        If only we could treat ourselves as we treat other men,
looking at their withdrawn faces and crediting them with
some mysterious, irresistible power. Instead, we know all our
own faults, our misgivings, and are reduced to hoping for
some unconscious force to surge up from our inmost being and
act with a subtlety all its own.

27th October
       It is possible not to think about women, just as one
does not think about death.

28th October
       For any misfortune we may suffer, we should blame
no one but Ol}rselves (cf. 28th January, '37).
       Suffering serves no purpose whatever ( cf. 26th No-
vember, '37).
       Suffering limits spiritual efficiency ( cf. I 7th June, '38).
      Suffering is always our own fault ( cf. 29th September,
'38}.
      Suffering is a weakness ( cf. I 3th October, '38).
      At least there's one thing to set against all that: if I
had not suffered I should not have written those fine phrases.
     110
                                                    1938

29th October
         It is one thing to remember my own counsels about
technique when I am sitting at my writing table deep in
thought, debating my choice of words; it is quite another to
remember advice about life and act as I ought when, dis-
tracted by joy or grief, I have to deal with rapidly changing
situations.
         To complain to the world at large is futile and harm-
£~, that much is certain. It remains to be seen whether it is
not equally futile and harmful to complain to ourselves. What
can we hope to gain? Sympathy? That would be meaningless,
for sympathy is the voluptuous union of two spirits. A con-
cession? The only concession a man can make to himself is to
permit' indulgence in his own lamentable weakness, and any-
one can see how harmful that would be. The only other
excuse is that we do it to delve for truth in our own heart
while it is softened by compassion. But experience teaches us
that truths are exposed only by a calm, rigorous soul-searching
that halts our conscience in some unforeseen reaction and
looks at it like a film that has suddenly stopped, paralyzed
and motionless.
        -Before being astute with others, we must be astute
with ourselves (7th December, '37).
         -The art of looking all men squarely in the face, our·
selves included ( gth October, '38) .
         -If we could deal with ourselves as we do with others
..• (26th October, '38).
        -It is equally futile and harmful to complain to our-
selves as to the world in general ( 2gth October, '38).
         In all this I find: an urgent need to regard our own
ego as being no more important than that of other men, so as
to free us from the false advantage that our own personal
singularity gives to our ego; to banish maudlin self-pity and
the cancerous importance that our every humor assumes in
our own eyes; to deal objectively with ourselves, as we do
                                                      111
     This Business of Living
with others; to pity others, perhaps, but never to pity our-
selves.

30th October
      We forgive others when it suits us.

1st November
         Characters that are depressed at a mere nothing are
the ones best suited to endure heavy blows. They accom-
modate themselves more easily than forceful '     men to living
in an atmosphere of tragedy. Their powers of resistance are
soon exhausted and they muddle along somehow. The habit
of considering every scratch as a calamity robs a real disaster
of its power to hurt. When misfortune comes, the self-confident
optimist suffers horribly; the man for whom things always
go wrong, suffers in moderation; the out-and-Out pessimist is
pleased to find his expectations confirmed.
         In order not to suffer we must convince ourselves that
everything is suffering (Leopardi could have had a happy
life), and that we must "accept it." But to do that we must
know an alchemy strong enough to tum filth into gold. We
cannot "accept it," and that is that. Why should we? We
shall be told: ( 1 ) one becomes a better man; ( 2 ) God is won
over; (3) it will inspire us to write poetry (the feeblest excuse
of all); (4) we are paying a score that all men pay. But
when it comes to the final suffering, death, ( 1 ) and ( 3)
collapse: what remains is the conquest of God or the common
destiny of mankind.

2nd November
         Misfortunes cannot suffice to make a fool into an
intelligent man.
         Dante was wise in punishing misers and spendthrifts
together: only spendthrifts are truly avaricious. It hurts them
to spend. The miser thinks he is prodigal, the prodigal dreads
being miserly, and both are in torment.
     112
                                                      1938

srd November
        We are all capable of evil thoughts, but only very
rarely of evil deeds. We can all do good deeds, but very few
can think good thoughts. ( Cf. 2oth June, 'g8.)
        Men's good opinion of us is a stronger force than con·
science. Who would not choose to yield to the basest temptation
within himself, rather than commit, even innocently, a base
action, always provided, of course, that he could not pass on
the blame?

4th November
         Since all states of passion have their own decisive
chemical reaction that, by the play of cause and effect, lead
to sudden exasperating situations, contradictory, created in
error by ourselves, it is essential to counter every kindhearted
passion with a firm determination to crush it as a roller
crushes a blade of .grass, pleasing itself and refusing to tum
aside. As for voluptuousness, crushing such an impulse gives
just as much pleasure as giving vent to it, and is much more
sound. The pleasure of breaking every restraining bond of
joy or irritation, for oneself alone.
         Your very exclusiveness and sameness will make this
pleasure voluntary and not something imposed upon you. Or,
at least, its motives will be decided once and for all, not gone
through over and over agqin.
        The man who has not had this firmness of purpose is
the one most determined to acquire it, for he knows how
much it is worth ( = Alfieri) .
         The snag lies in the fact that without charity and
attachments life becomes deadly, but with charity and attach-
ments it leaves itself open to a waste of passion and to the
consequent exasperating chemical reaction. The roller and
the blade of grass.
        In 'poetry you feel the same necessity. The close, gar-
rulous interest in a complicated, passionate plot (Proust!) is
                                                       113
      This Business of Living
very different from the strong, assured grasp that seizes and
gains command of a whole life (Lee Masters) .
        You do not like submitting yourself to the determinism
of analyses. But you want to choose a swift action that could
be a myth, i.e., a voluntary happening imposed on the
variations.
        You do well to know all the exasperating, involuntary
intricacies of passion. But you must select them, i.e., not
approve them all, as other analysts do, notwithstanding their
ironies against the generic mechanism of passion.
        Yield as you have yielded to passion in life, but seeing
clearly what its design is-the myth of marriage-and crush-
ing the blade of grass as soon as this conclusion appears
impracticable, undesirable. You have the temperament to do
so: look at the times you have drawn back and your frigid
refusals in April, '36 and August, '38.
        To maintain that our successes are due to Providence
and not to our own cleverness, is a cunning way of increasing,
in our own eyes, the importance of those successes.
        When a man has an innate love of luxury, abandon,
enervating softness and also has an inflexible determination
to root it out, clenching his jaws and concentrating every
effort on mastering it, he can be sure his inner life will be
unceasingly productive.

5th November
        The prose used in essays, descriptions, moral and social
studies is, to the novel, what lyric poetry is to epic.
        The sixteenth, seventeenth and eighteenth centuries
had the essay, then came the novel. The fact that, during
decadence, this kind of prose is coming back, confirms the
parallel: the lyric, too, is doing the same.
        At one time, if a husband went wrong his wife had
the blame for it, which proves that, in sexual matters, public
opinion was based, not on ethics (ethics being a man-made
creation), but on self-preservation. What matters to a man
is keeping his wife to himself, not obeying some absurd idea
     114
                                                        1938
of justice. The fortune of war, in which it is a disgrace to be
conquered, and the conqueror's conception of justice is sub-
jection. (Cf. 15th December, '37; 31st December, '37, III;
xgth January, '38, V; 1st February, '38; 5th February, '38,
II; 2oth February, '38.)
         The art of family life lies in reconciling our egotism
with our need to see ourselves from the outside, our need to
love, i.e., to sacrifice ourselves.
         The style of the twentieth century deepens the break-
away from Leopardi and Stendahl which began earlier, with
the impressionism of the realists. And it does so by reverting
to and augmenting the conception of style whereby its creators
see in Leopardi-Stendhal the last champions of stylized con-
struction. But this concept is no longer in line with the
universal humanistic pattern: it accords with the ideal model
by which each spirit can express and harmonize its own reality:
a magic self-revelation of thought, of inner life, in which there
can be no initial calm, no "language of reason," no abstract
thought. It is a style that expresses but does not explain. Its
origins lie in the researches of story-writers of the past century,
not (as with Leopardi and Stendhal) in the pages of human-
istic essayists who were concerned with restoring the logical
style of treatment.
         The researches of realistic story-writers had destroyed
style (as in Dickens and Dostoievsky), giving the world,
instead, sensations and fine shades of meaning (Balzac, Tolstoi,
Maupassant, etc.) . It was necessary to revive the individuality
of every inner life, but it was not style. Anti-realism began
to emphasize that all the impressions of a single consciousness
are similar in tone (the aesthetic styles of Pater and Wilde,
the carnal quality of d' Annunzio, the psychological musings
of Proust, the studied vulgarity of Joyce, and so on), and
finally gave way to writers who rediscovered the living, rhyth-
mic pattern that, by reviving one's own thoughts, explains
them. A pattern, incidentally, already met with in the work
of a few anti-realists, particularly Verga.
         This is why the play of imagination, in styles of the
                                                         115
     This Business of Living
past, interests you so much, the transition from it to reality,
their interpenetration. At such moments we glimpse the style
of the twentieth century, which is a never-ending revelation
of inner life, manifesting it in moments when the subject of
the story is the link between reality and imagination, i.e.,
rendering inner reality expressive. Putting that more plainly:
as the imagination unfolds, it is interesting to see how its
development reflects, corrects and re-creates the original term
of comparison, i.e., how the narrative reality becomes stylized
in the imagination.

6th November
         I spent the whole evening sitting before a mirror to
keep myself company.
         Naturally (as you prove in Eremita), it is unnecessary
to make imagination depend on the "how'' or its equivalents.
The image is formed for you (and that is the only thing that
matters) when you allude to a different experience that helps
to define the character or the situation by giving it a back-
ground. For example: the sea and the lightning. But let us
be clear. These touches when, without pausing in your story,
you seize an opportunity of using memories to deepen the
total experience, are more symbolic than descriptions. Although
they may be imaginative, in the sense that they recur at
moments when it seems natural to clarify an inner reality,
they play the same part in your story as the recognized
attributes of a god or a hero do in a myth (the white bodies
of the Oceanids, the murderous hands of Achilles, the belt
of Aphrodite), stories within the story, alluding to the hidden
reality of the character.
         So leave the name of images to the touches about
the little goat in Eremita or the dynamo in Fedelta, honest,
old-fashioned bits of imagery.

8th November
      One cannot know one's own style and consciously
employ it. One always uses a pre-existent style, unconsciously
     116
                                                          1938
molding it into something fresh. One discovers what one's
style is at any given moment only when it is past and clearly
defined, when one reviews it and can interpret its meaning,
deciding how it has come about.
         While actually writing, we are blind to it. We cannot,
at that moment, know whether it is developing well; whether,
that is to say, we shall consider it successful when we go
over it again. We simply live it. Our craft, the skill we bring
to it, is obviously part of our previous style, quite different
from what we are that moment evolving. As we write, we
efface our errors of style by practice. It is dangerous to go
back over what we have already written, to correct it; dif~
ferent ideas would have intervened.
         Then is there no such thing as technique? There is,
but what really counts, the new growth, is always a step ahead
of the technique we knew, born of what flows unconsciously
from our pen. To be conscious of our style means that we
have finished expressing part of our mystery. Also that from
then on we cannot write in that style. The day will come when
all our mystery has been revealed, and then we can write no
more, can create no new style.

roth November
         Literature is a defense against the attacks of life. It says
to life: "You can't deceive me. I know your habits, foresee and
enjoy watching your reactions, and steal your secret by in-
volving you in cunning obstructions that halt your normal
flow.,
         The other defense against things in general is silence
as we muster strength for a fresh leap forward. But we must
impose that silence on ourselves, not have it imposed on us,
not even by death. To choose a hardship for ourselves is our
only defense against that hardship. This is what is meant by
accepting suffering. Not being resigned to it, but using it as a
springboard. Controlling the effect of the blow. Those who,
by their very nature, can suffer completely, utterly, have an
advantage. That is how we can disarm the power of suffer-
                                                           117
     This Business of Living
ing, make it our own creation, our own choice; submit to it.
A justification for suicide. Charity has no place in all this.
Unless, perhaps, this act of violence is in itself the truest form
of charity?

I Ith November
         My observations of 5th November about the state of
war between the sexes appear in a fresh light if we broaden
them to apply to all instances of material pleasure. When we
see a man making love we shudder and hate the lucky man,
who always seems to us a fool or a beast, but we feel just the
same if we see him guzzling his food or indulging in an act
of cruelty. Perhaps the indignation we feel when we see or
hear of political atrocities springs from this: we can tolerate
the idea that we-or those belonging to us--might employ
such measures, but not that they should be used by someone
whom we cannot, even in imagination, invest with our own
egotism. In an absolute sense, we cannot endure the sight of
a man enjoying himself (we always think of his pleasure as
merely physical) without being filled with spite. Now and then
we feel the same about ourselves, when we catch ourselves in
the act of enjoying some physical pleasure. Then we hate the
coarseness of that pleasure, the vulgar insolence of it, namely
the quality we connect with it when others enjoy it. Hate is
always a clash between our own spirit and someone else's
body. (And at the same time, maybe it is the suspicion that
that body has a spirit, and that body and spirit get on excep-
tionally well, better than our own, or in a way unknown to us?
cf. the end of 2gth September and srd October.) Also there
will be the suspicion that his body, for him, possesses a spirit
that can do without us. What we all want from others, in
short, is their docile, devoted agreement to our pressing needs
(even to the need we feel most strongly-to humble ourselves
at their feet). That alone, when it is constantly with us, can
make us take pleasure in the joys of others.
         In this sense, to hate one's neighbor is really to ignore
him, or, rather, to know one is ignoring him, seeing him only
        118
                                                      1938
from the outside. And since to be aware of knowing nothing
implies a desire to know, hatred is a thirst for love. Charity
is all a question of nerves.

13th November
         In a story told in the first person one can be realistic
without lapsing into realism. When it comes to realism, a song
in the first person is more convincing than one in the third.
         Proust is obsessed by the idea that every hope, once
realized, is replaced exactly by a new state that consequently
cancels the preceding one (Swann's dream that he was to be
married. Dreams of the "I" who will be received in Swann's
home). Beyond the impossibility of communication between
souls, there is the same impossibility of communication between
different states of soul. Hence the feeling that everything is
relative and empty-short of recapturing time that has been
lost. Hence the taste for flights of fancy, noting sardonically
how they vanish whenever they encounter reality, and realiz-
ing, therefore, the need for a law to serve and perpetuate
every dream.
         What we desire is not to possess a woman, but to be
the only one to possess her.

17th November
         A class gets the better of a teacher by taking advantage
in almost imperceptible ways that the teacher tolerates out
of generosity, knowing that his presence should be sufficient
to impose silence, without the need to call for order. But,
little by little the hubbub becomes general and the teacher has
to intervene, calling one of the class to order. Then they all
understand that the teacher is not invulnerable, that someone
spoke and it could be any one of them. Other calls to order
follow and the class gets used to them. Since they cannot all
be . punished, general disorder develops to whatever degree
they know will be tolerated, and will excuse any pupil in par-
ticular. Now the teacher demands silence with greater vehe-
mence; the result is that the din becomes more determined,
                                                        119
     This Business of Living
more malicious, assuming that the teacher is reluctant to
punish or fails to find penalties that will quell them. The
uproar becomes from then on the normal state of affairs, a
distraction, an outlet for high spirits, open warfare, now that
they know the limits of the teacher's reactions. His mere
presence is no longer sufficient to maintain silence; he is com·
pelled to call for order, but his commands have proved them·
selves ineffective.

21st November
        To hear people of the same profession, trade, sex,
religion talking about it among themselves arouses a disgust
for that profession, etc., unless the listener belongs to the same
group himself. The reason is that efficiency transforms even
the most exciting occupation into mere habit, a matter of
precise detail, and so robs it of all mystery, all those delusive
veils born of that mystery, which are for that sphere of activity
what legend is to history. Thus far, Leopardi would agree.
        Going beyond Leopardi, we will say that incompetence
is a much more unhappy state than competence, because,
one fine day, it must inevitably reveal its own emptiness and
disturb its fanciful illusion with the sorrowful conviction of
its own stupidity and ineptitude. Still, there is a robust, stoical
pleasure in getting out of that state and moving, as though
between the cogs of a machine, into the pitiless world of han;:l
facts. A pleasure, incidentally, that Leopardi enjoyed (without
having justified it) in his cruel dissections.

24th November
        All those boys of your own age that you knew when
you were a lad, you hear young N. describe them now as "old
relics,, and you agree with him. "But why are they still
around, those old relics?" he says. How could they escape this
verdict? Obviously by no longer doing what they did when
they were young, not "being around," not going on saying
the same things, not spiriting up by their mere presence an
impossible, long-vanished ghost of the past. How can someone
     120
                                                           1938
of thirty not feel a relic? By ceasing to live on hope; ceasing,
that is, to believe that some friendly, mutual contact might
change something in his life; seeking a point of application
in his own concerns, a broadening of his own personality.
          They say that youth is the age of hope, simply because
then, in a confused sort of way, one hopes for something from
other people as well as from oneself, one does not yet under-
stand that they are precisely "other people."· We stop being
young when we can differentiate between ourselves and
"others," i.e., when we no longer need their company. And
we grow old in two ways: either by having no hope, even
from ourselves (fossilization, lapsing into second childhood),
or hoping for nothing except from ourselves (industry).
          During our mature years there are two ways of treat-
 ing other people: as if we were all young but being careful
 not to get involved, and well aware of it; or as if we were all
 old, and therefore well aware of each man's need for isolation.
          Why does marriage mark the step from youth to matu-
 rity? Because by that act we select one woman from all the
 rest to be our constant companion, to stand between us and
 other women, identify herself with us, become the circuM-
 scribed arena of our social life, in which we no longer look
 for company outside ourselves. It puts the seal on the egotism
  needed to live soberly, an egotism whose excuse is that it
  creates duties.
           Of these two ways of becoming mature, the first is
  terribly difficult, precisely because it gives us the foolish illusion
  of being still young ourselves, still hoping wearily that some
  contact with others will bring us what we no longer believe
  we can find in ourselves. That is, it creates skeptical old relics.
  The second seems easier, but it is nerve-racking and places
  you in most disagreeable situations, and eventually leads you
  to plunge even more blindly into the vain hope of establishing
  some contact with your fellowmen. That is, it creates ingenu-
  ous old relics. It is pointless to add that in both cases the
   motive force is egotism, just as it is with grown-ups who fight
  against their maturity.
                                                              121
    This Business of Living
        Not a trace of charity. What young people feel is not
yet charity, precisely because it will become one of these
egotisms, by thirty at the latest. (All this discourse is an illus-
tration of the fine maxim of 31st October, '37.)

26th November
       Still in a stupor and just out of prison in an unfamiliar
town, you see someone else-already dear to you-go to jail,
and the obsessive idea of this second prison is colored by the
strangeness of the town that shows its hidden face in your
new loneliness. The Genoese, with vulgar assurance, who talks
loudly about the unusual things in the town, protesting and
condemning, is not receptive but demanding and thus ap-
proves when the town agrees with him.
       To go back to 24th November-to be serious makes
you naive.

29th November
       Knowing about the invisible cell makes us feel that
everything is provisional, even in the human circle to which
we belong. Who can feel at home with a cell?

30th November
      I) There are two stages in writing a novel. The first
is as though a sheet of water were becoming opaque and
dark with mud; there is violent movement, upheaval, foam;
then there is a calm, a period of quiescence; the quivering
water grows still, begins to clear and suddenly is transparent
again. The depths and the sky reflected in them are motion-
less.
       The novel came into existence quietly, during this
elimination of all motion and every impurity. Remember: it
happened quietly.
       II) So a novel is born; the agitated water trembles,
grows clear and then is still. Those are the two stages: I)
cloudy and disturbed, II) calm and serene.
     122
                                                       1938

grd December
         When we read, we are not looking for new ideas, but
to see our own thoughts given the seal of confinnation on the
printed page. The words that strike us are those that awake
an echo in a zone we have already made our own-the place
where we live--and the vibration enables us to find fresh
starting points within ourselves.
         What a great thought it is that all effort is futile! It
is sufficient just to let our ego blossom, go along with it, take
it by the hand as though it were someone else, have faith
that we are more important than we realized.

4th December
        The Fioretto of the Sermon to the Birds can show any-
one what symbolic construction is. St. Francis is uncertain
whether to pray or preach, and sends to ask Sister Clare and
Brother Sil~ester (the one who had seen a cross of gold pro-
ceeding from the mouth of St. Francis to the extremities of
the world). The reply is that he should preach. (Accordingly,
with great fervor of spirit, he preaches at Carmano [Savurni-
ano], commanding the swallows to keep silence. All the
people want to follow him and St. Francis makes them minor
friars.) Then he preaches at Bevango to his "little sisters,"
the birds, and when they have listened to him and received
his blessing, they fly away in the shape of a cross, carrying
the significance of his teaching to the four ends of the world.
        The symbolic interest links Sister Clare and Silvester,
the cross-bearer, with the birds, who are also "sisters" and
"cross-bearers" (by means of the sermon at Carmano, when,
under the sign of the swallows, all the people were transformed
into minor friars) . It is this device of making the birds per-
sonify sisters and cross-bearers (Clare and Silvester) which
makes the story, and creates, out of a simple, charming detail
(the behavior of the birds while St. Francis was preaching)
a rich, profound imagery of inner life. This may be a symbol,
                                                        123
     This Business of Living
but it is certainly poetry. Clare and Silvester (the com-
panions) give their own significance to the birds and receive
fresh significance from them-and this is what I call imagery.
(The devotion of the people of Carmano and the silence of
the swallows are clever touches that unite the two extremes
of the greater imagery.)
        To suggest, by a repeated action, a descriptive name,
some cross-reference or other, that a character, an object or
a situation in the story has an imaginative link with another,
is to take away the material nature of both, and to substitute
an account of that link, that imaginative connection, instead
of a story based on their individual, material nature.
         "This imaginative link" must be something more than
a mere similarity. It must give its own color to the whole
subject, present it in a certain light, with a certain meaning,
 which then is the truth it has to convey: the "little sisters
 and the cross" changes the companions and the birds into
 "creatures of charity bearing witness to God," i.e., "imparting
 a message of active charity."
         View in this way the symbols of Dante, not so much
 the Cross and the Eagle (those are the most banal ones), but,
 for example, the atmosphere of twilight in all the cantos of
 the Purgatorio, which gives meaning to the visions and
 awakenings, and expresses the message of "a world that is
 glad to conceal itself in shadow."

6th December
        Old age-or maturity-falls also on the external world.
The clear, freezing winter night etching the outlines of houses
against a snow-laden sky, once it touched our hearts and
opened up a whole world of heroic restlessness.
      As time goes on, we no longer need to move amid the
outside world and share its anxieties. All that we want is a
brief recognition of it, knowing that it exists in itself and also
in us, and waiting for a world composed entirely of an inner
life, that thenceforward takes on the freshness and fecundity
of nature. Maturity is this, too; no longer seeking outside
      124
                                                       1938
ourselves, but letting our inner life speak with its own rhythm
-the only thing that matters. Then the outside world seems
petty and materialistic, compared with the unforeseen, pro-
found maturity of our memories. Our very flesh and blood
has ripened and become imbued with spirituality, its rhythm
has broadened. Maturity is an isolation that is sufficient unto
itself.
        Youth does not possess its own body, or the world at
large.
        As for the old idea that genius is synonymous with
creative fertility-eighty tragedies, twenty novels, thirty operas,
and so on-genius is not a matter of discovering some ex-
ternal theme and treating it skillfully, but of finally achieving
complete possession of one's own experience, own body, own
 memories-one's own rhythm, and expressing this rhythm,
 above and beyond the limitations of plot or subject matter,
 with the perennial fruitfulness of inexhaustible thought.
        Youth has no genius and is not productive.

8th December
        Anyone who denounces the immorality of venal love
must leave all women alone, for, apart from the rare occasions
when one of them offers her body for love's sake, even the
woman who has loved you merely allows the act of love to
happen, giving herseH out of courtesy or for some personal
advantage, as apathetic as a prostitute.
        The same thing, though perhaps less often, can be
said of a man.
        The only way out of this farce is to condemn sincere
love, too, in as much as its object is self-gratification. The
fact remains that screwing, with its plea for caresses, smiles,
complaisance, sooner or later becomes a bore to one of the
couple, who no longer feels inclined to kiss, caress, or give
pleasure to the other. Then their love-making is as false as
venal love. You can't deny it. Even if their purpose is to
produce a child.
        The conclusion of 6th December confirms the state-
                                                         125
    This Business of Living
ments of 24th November about youth. "We stop being young
when we can differentiate between ourselves and others.,
"Youth is not possessing one's own body." Maturity is isolation
that is sufficient unto itself.

Ioth December
        Idleness makes hours pass slowly and years swiftly.
Activity makes the hours seem short and the years long. The
busiest time of all is childhood, because it is fully occupied
by finding out what the world is and getting used to it.
        Years become long in our memory if, when thinking of
them, we find they contain many events that add to their
imaginative appeal. That is why childhood seems so very long.
Probably every period of life is multiplied by our reflections
upon it in the next. The shortest is old age, because we shall
never be able to think back on it.
        Everything that has happened to us is of inexhaustible
value; each time we think about it makes it more far-
reaching, endows it with associations, gives it a deeper signifi-
cance. Childhood is not only the childhood we really had, but
the impressions we formed of it in our adolescence and
maturity. It seems the most important epoch because it is
the one most enriched by our long succession of thoughts
about it.
        The years are a unit of memory; the hours and days,
of experience.

2oth December
        Get rid of your taste for the significant, extravagant
remark and replace it with the significant, extravagant
thought, no longer expressed in dialogue but deepened to
form the connective tissue of the tale. The first is descriptive
realism, the second is construction. Stop making your charac-
ters say intelligent things; the intelligent things are what you
should know yourself, amplifying them in the construction of
your story.
     126
                                                     1939

26th December
         Imprisonment is bound to seem like the end of every
kindly impulse, the point when human sympathy congeals.
In fact, during the ascending phase, one's mind soars beyond
those walls. (Do not take the strangeness of that new world
as :final. Use it as a means of stimulating wonder and curi-
osity), and in the descending phase one thinks with sympa-
thetic horror of the next prisoner to be confined there, for
whom that strangeness will increase the burden of loneliness.

27th December
         Although, in reality, childhood is made up of long
periods of vague uncertamty and rare contacts with the world
 (the :first we have), it seems very long in retrospect, simply
because we know that there were long pauses between our
important discoveries.
         The art of living is the art of behaving in such a way
that we have no need to invite people or things, but still they
come to us. To achieve that result, it is not enough to despise
them, but we must also despise them. Just as with women, it is
not enough to be stupid, but we must also be stupid.




1939
xst January
        This past year has been a period of much reflection,
of release from bondage (half in, half out); few new works,
but a great and growing urge to :find freedom and under-
standing. Now I can begin.
        My active work, now organized on a practical basis,
should no longer be chaotic; a life of sensible seclusion will
follow, and all my energy be devoted to creation.
        Remember that the self-confidence of 3oth December,
                                                      127
    This Business of Living
'37 was an illusion, and that six months later I was still raving.
Remember.

7th January
        Though a young man tends to be reserved-out of
timidity-he is naively full of confidence that to be on cordial
terms with other people would bring him everything he wants
-but this worries him even more, because he cannot attain
this cordiality. A mature man, on the contrary, accepts with
equanimity the social life that comes his way, but does not
dream of basing his own serenity upon it.

19th January
         Any suffering that does not also teach you something,
is futile. Remember that, seeing how painful it is. Instead of
sorrowing over the extent of a disaster, grieve for its useless-
ness. Enduring a dreadful calamity passively, like an animal,
 does not make it any less. Instead, one should look at it calmly,
 and get something useful out of its futility by means of con-
templation.
         There still remains the actual reality of death, that by
 annihilating the subject also abolishes his powers of con-
 templation. But then it is even more useless to suffer it. To
 contemplate it up to the last moment without batting an
 eyelid is still the most practical method. • . . uwouldst drink
 up eisel? Eat a crocodile? • • ,,

23rd January
        Only a thought that has become automatic, instinctive,
can serve as a credo and inspire action. There is danger in
analyzing oneself too much: it brings too clearly to light the
living veins of one's own temperament, and by familiarity
their reactions become mechanical. Instead, one must acquire
the art of giving free play to one's spiritual impulses, allowing
them to react automatically to stimulation. There is a reaction
due to orthodox beliefs-the catechism, false and known too
      128
                                                     1939
well-and a reaction due to instinct. One must foster instinct,
seek it out, recognize it, rely on it, without dulling it by
reflection. But thought is needed, too, to act in accord-
ance with it and take its place in moments when we are deaf
to it.

29th January
        The most banal thing, discovered in ourselves, becomes
intensely interesting. It is no longer an abstract banality, but
an amazing co-ordination between reality and our own in-
dividuality.

2nd February
        H inner progress comes only through conscious con-
victions that coincide with things we knew unconsciously
already (d. srd December, '38), then all that really counts
is our unconscious mind, in which lies our true nature, our
temperament. What we learn in life, what we can teach, is
the technique of the path to conscious knowledge, which thus
becomes the simple outline of our nature.
        Religions and doctrines all claim that it is possible to
teach not only the path to knowledge but also the structure
of knowledge, and, as if that were not enough, they all add a
good deal about grace, inspiration, zeal, to supplement the
warmth generated by the contact of the unconscious mind
with reality.

5th February
        To believe in things means leaving something behind
us to exist after our own death, and having the satisfaction,
while we are still alive, of being in touch with something that
will outlive us. But does it give us any satisfaction to think
that things were in existence before us, and that in the course
of our life we come into contact with what went before? The
same meager satisfaction is all we shall have after death,
knowing that something of ours will continue to exist.
                                                       129
     This Business of Living

7th February
        Those who seem most passionate in their· youth, gen-
erally become cynics later in llie; young cynics develop, as
they grow older, a naive ingenuousness in sexual matters.
Byron typifies the first, Swann the second. It is not possible to
possess only one of those two attitudes, for the one inevitably
engenders the other.
        I noted on 24th November, 'g8: young men see no
difference between themselves and others; a man is mature
when he can distinguish between himself and others. How
then can we explain why civilizations begin with a belief in
the objectivity of the world, and invent idealism when they
are decadent? Thus: the objectivity of the world is the result
of looking at it on the bright side, believing in it as a mystic,
objective, organized unity; idealism means isolating the ego
from empty, conventional pretenses (the "others, of the man
of riper years).

gth February
        Where juvenile enthusiasm falls short is in its refusal,
substantially, to recognize its own limitations. The ability to
differentiate between oneself and others, that comes as one
reaches maturity, tends to convince the ego that there is no
way of communicating with others. And, in fact, there is no
direct communication. One recognizes the dignity of other
men only through a superior being: God. That is why we are
told to do good for the love of God. So little does the other
man, as such, matter to us.
        Given that to know other men is an enrichment (and
the only true knowledge comes through a loving recognition),
the man who refuses to love them, i.e., to know them, is that
much poorer. Hence the adolescent feeling of completeness,
for in the intoxication of youth one feels the never-ending
thrill of universal knowledge. But.since this feeling of com-
pleteness is unfounded, more mature experience regards it as
     130
                                                       1939
a delusion. Hence the retrocession of the thirties, that can be
avoided only by the man who recognizes his own limitations
and does not compare himself with others. The bare, utilitarian
knowledge (cynicism) of the thirties, is the reverse side of the
simple, muddled love of everything (ingenuousness). of the
twenties. They are both forms of poverty, and without much
trouble one of them can change to the other, but a man
must sweat blood to pass from either of them to true charity,
or, as they say, "find God."

15th February
       A discovery: when anyone "takes us down," humili-
ates us and treats us as servants, we attach ourselves to him,
will not let him go, take his hand and bless him in our inmost
heart as if we were bewitched. Is this a presentiment of the
brotherhood of man, a recognition (against nature) of our
need to be abject?

5th March
        No matter how much a young man likes to think for
himself, he is always trying to model himself on some abstract
pattern largely derived from the example of the world around
him. And a man, no matter how conservative, shows his own
worth by his personal deviation from that pattern.
        This arises from the fact that only gradually do we
come to understand that our way of life is our own creation;
in all its minute ramifications it is the expression of our ex-
perience. The troubles of young people are born of the
impossibility of making their own experience coincide with
the broad, stylized impression they have gained of the world.
Any profession, any social status, seems to a young man remote
and unattainable; until, little by little, he has created his own
status and profession-totally different, in their slow, inner
growth, from the clumsy vision he imagined and dreaded. But
then he is a man. Which confirms that to be young is to be
unable to possess oneself.
                                                        131
    This Business of Living

12th March
        Note that Proust, who breaks experience down into
myriads of momentary feelings, then becomes the most rabid
theorist about those feelings, and constructs his book not upon
memories of the reaction one feeling has upon another, but
on planes of conceptualism and mystical knowledge that
reduce them to material for research.

29th March
        From what I said on 6th December, '38, it follows that
it is more unpleasant to die old than young.

grd April
        Every man has the philosophy of his own aptitudes.

26th April
        The company of a woman we love makes us suffer and
live in a state of violent agitation. We should choose the
company of one we do not care for, but then our relationship
with her is full of mental reservations; we are always wishing
to be alone, and in our own mind we abolish her.
        In all these thoughts on human relationships the main
thing is the contrast between passion and indifference, which
makes both of them absurd and incompatible. A charitable
solution: the only way to get near such women is to see them
through the fire of a search for information.
        In Memorie di due stagione,t as long as Garofolo
wants to break down his isolation or strengthen it (the first
nine chapters), he damages only his hands; when he thinks
of something else, relaxes, welcomes the spring, thinks of his
fantastic past, grows humble and considers himself one of
many (an identification with Orestes in prison and the ban-
ished anarchist), then he grows serene and lighthearted (the
last two chapters).
1 This was the original title of the story that was later published as
ll carcne (Primo che il gallo canti. Einaudi, 1948). Ed.
     132
                                                     1939

29th April
        Note that in the autumn of '38 I found a style and a
sequence of ideas all building up to a climax. Note, too, that
then, for the first time in my life, I decided to improve my
behavior, that is, I theoretically determined what I wanted
to be. And immediately I was able to write a novel which
experiments with that attitude. A good starting point is to
modify one's own past.

srd May
        The part of us that suffers is always a minor part. So,
too, is the part that feels pleasure. Only the part of us that
remains serene is of major importance. Suffering, like pleasure,
is yielding to emotion. The only difference is that pleasure
seems like serenity and is consequently deceptive, more time-
wasting, while suffering quickly toughens and exhausts us.
Substantially, to transform pleasure into serenity it must have
grown boring. It is always through boredom that one attains
serenity. Even suffering, to become creative, must first become
a bore. This is the reason why we need leisure to dream, if we
are to create. Then boredom crystallizes into ideas.

4th May
        Serenity can come from doing something which is not
an end in itself (as suffering and pleasure-seeking are), but
 which is connected with our work, because this interrupts
 boredom without involving us in an unexpected sequence of
thoughts and feelings, allowing us instead to take a detached
view (serenity) of a structure that obeys our commands (our
work).
        The finest thing we can say of any human endeavor,
and therefore of art, too, is that it lets us live serenely,
shunning determinism and being governed by the nature of
our material, forgetting self-interest as we watch that method
in action.
        What the Greeks used to say of philosophy, which is
                                                       133
     This Business of Living
 contemplation without seH-interest and therefore the most
sublime occupation, we can say of any techne, which is a
selfless life creating a long chain of consequences.
         If we denounce pleasure on the score of the stale dis-
satisfaction that remains when enjoyment is past, I do not
see how we can exclude the production of works that, when
completed, leave us as dissatisfied and stale as any pleasure.
True, the work remains, but is that enough? There is, too,
the thought that the work-a detached reality-is living its
own life and doing some good to our fellowmen. It seems,
then, that happiness is inseparable from the dedication of
oneself to others. In that case, we can be happy only by going
outside ourselves (another criticism of pleasure and pain) ;
happy only indirectly, at a tangent, going in a certain direc-
tion and finding an additional unsought, side-shoot of pleasure
that does not end when our immediate purpose is satisfied.
Fundamentally, this is a clever device that ensures a longer
duration to our pleasure, by the very fact that its end becomes
indefinite. When we can say: "I did not act for myself but
for a higher prill.ciple," having been careful to choose the
broadest, most longlasting principle possible-eternal, if need
be, we can be sure that our satisfaction will endure until the
far distant future, or perhaps for ever.

(Evening)
         Note that when you want to discredit a principle you
call it a device, a piece of astuteness. This fashion of not con-
sidering anything acceptable but ingenuousness, disinterested
enthusiasm, is romanticism. But why reject a shrewd principle
if it makes you happier? The trouble is that if it is shrewd
it no longer makes you happy, because you no longer believe
it absolutely.

15th May
        They have told you they do not complain, they would
ask little or nothing, they suffer hopelessly, but they are not
moaners.
     134
                                                           1939
          Politics is the art of the possible. All life is a matter of
politics.
         The greatest misfortune is loneliness. So true is this
that the highest form of consolation-religion-lies in finding
a friend who will never let you down-God. Prayer is giving
vent to one's thoughts, as with a friend. Work is an equivalent
to prayer, since ideally it puts you in contact with something
that will not take advantage of you. The whole problem of
life, then, is this: how to break out of one's own loneliness,
how to communicate with others. That explains the persistence
of marriage, fatherhood, friendship, since they might bring
happiness! But why it should be better to be in communication
with another than to be alone, is a mystery. Perhaps it is only
an illusion, for one can be perfectly happy alone, most of the
time. It is pleasant now and then to have a boon companion
to drink with, provided that what we ask of others we already
possess within ourselves. The mystery is why it is not enough
to drink and fathom our own individuality alone; why we
should have to repossess ourselves through others. (Sex is
merely incidental; what it gives us is momentary and casual:
we see ourselves as something more involved, more mysterious,
of which sex is only a sign, a symbol.)

16th May
       Bachelors regard matrimony more seriously than mar-
ried people do.

18th May
       The man who avoids having children because he does
not want to support them, will have to support other men's
children.

20th May
        It is natural that a woman, compelled by circum-
stances to submit to the intrusion of another's body into her
own (leaving out of it her social subjection), should have
developed a whole technique of escape within herself, eluding
                                                            135
    This Business of Living
man, nullifying his conquest of her. Quite apart from her
other weapons-deceitfulness and the game of social life.
        Man is, at most, the slave of vice, but the woman, after
coition, is the slave of the probable consequences: hence her
terribly practical attitude to these things.

12th June
         Since one is bound to throw a woman over, sooner or
later, it is as well to do it quickly.
          People at the dawn of history had a far stronger sense
of the past than those who came after them. When a race
no longer has a vital sense of its own past, it is dying out.
Creative vitality springs from what has been stored in the
past. We become creators when we have a past. The youth of
a race is a rich old age. (Genius is wisdom and youth.)
          Creation begins when an action is repeated endlessly
until it becomes a routine and therefore wearisome. There
follows a period of boredom, when our mind wanders. Then
the thing we have forgotten because of its banality springs to
life again like a miracle, a revelation, and there is our creative
urge.
          One substitute for far-off-in-time (the past) is far-off-
in-space (the strange and exotic). This explains why, in some
races, many creative urges are born from the fusion of two
different civilizations; or more precisely, that fusion is a
stimulus which brings out the richness already stored in the
two respective pasts. It is the essential spark that gives their
combination power to achieve wonders. By "richness," whether
exotic or of the past, I mean a consciousness of life itself, not
historical or geographical.
          In the life of the imagination there are only two
phases: the reflowering of a past or the clash between two
ways of life.
          The muses are the daughters of memory or the Indian
 Dionysus. Boredom, therefore, is like the sickness of pregnant
women.
     136
                                                        1939
7th July
        A past should be familiar enough for us to be able to
relive it automatically, yet strange enough to astonish us each
time we tum back to it: then it is ready for the use of our
imagination.
         An experience that seemed to you commonplace-let
time pass, and you will see it with fresh eyes. It will be
amazing.
         To spend time in silence rejuvenates men and nations.

soth July
        Is there or is there not progress in history?
        There can be no solution to that problem, because
while what you mean by progress is bringing moral values
into what is absolute (all the rest you call technical skill,
cleverness), other people are quite satisfied with this technical
improvement in comfortable living conditions, regarding this
as progress.
        One cannot reach the absolute by degrees. Therefore
one cannot find the absolute through historical evolution. So
progress (undeniably) is not towards the absolute, but is
quantitative.
        The same applies to the individual. There is technical
 progress, an increase in cleverness, in experience, but the span
 of the bridge is what it was at the age of seven. It will be the
 same at thirty-five, as far as the absolute is concerned.

 grd August
          Sexual morality is a palliative for jealousy. It strives to
 avoid comparison with another man's virile capacity. Jealousy
 is the fear of that comparison.
          Tolerance of ideas is born of the illusion that truth is
 something rational. But as soon as one accepts the principle
 that any idea is based on an initial choice, and that the will
 is the first organ of understanding, then it becomes impossible
                                                           137
     This Business of Living
to agree with that policy. To think this or that is incriminating.
A practical source of error.

27th August
         To what I said on goth July, add that by technical
progress I also mean the perfecting of moral ideals that, in
essence, are a comfort. Progress towards moral absoluteness,
on the contrary, is a matter on which time has no bearing (I),
necessitating a complete annihilation of self and becoming
one with God. That takes place in a metaphysical sphere
where progress has no significance.
         (I ) A man might experience this change suddenly,
as if, in life, he had found a moment of eternity, but that is
outside our idea of time, which is a collective conception.
There can be no such thing as collective self-annihilation and
oneness with God, because collectivity is an empiric concep-
tion. It would always be possible, at any given moment, for
a man to be born who would refuse to merge himself with
God and lose his own identity.

gth September
         War makes men barbarous because, to take part in it,
one must harden oneself against all regret, all appreciation
of delicacy and sensitive values. One must live as if those
values did not exist, and when the war is over one has lost the
resilience to return to those values.

I7th September
        We give alms to a beggar to rid ourselves of the sight
of the poor wretch; and if such a one upsets us by his display
of utter misery, appealing to our sense of some obvious, un-
deniable kinship with him, then we loathe him with all our
might.

Ist October
       Mistakes that leap to your eyes in a work, or even those
that become apparent as you read, are by their very nature
     138
                                                                   1939
easily correctible and of no account. What does count is a
fundamental error, a mistaken viewpoint that distorts passages
correct in themselves, throwing them out of their true per-
spective. Such error cannot be corrected except by destroying
the work. Superficial, obvious errors serve, at most, as pointers
to what lies beneath.

gth October
         "There is an emotion inseparable from our encounter
with any man we meet." Lavelle: Verreur de Narcisse, p. 31.
         "Doubtless I am wrong if I complain of the treatment
others inflict on me. For it is always a result, a copy, of the
treatment I inflict on them. But if I grieve at not being loved
enough, it is because I myseH am not sufficiently loving."
Lavelle: ibid., p. 34·
         "The tenns we are on with other men are always a
reflection of the terms we are on with ourselves." Lavelle:
ibid., P· I65.
         ". • . the only thing that counts is what we are, not
what we do." Lavelle: ibid., p. 171.

I 4th October
         The urge to do something wicked at all costs, some-
thing that runs counter to our own nature, is characteristic
of adolescence. We feel compelled to prove to ourselves that
we belong to the universe and are above any conventional
restriction. What is better than finding we are a hero when
we've been up to a bit of devilment, on a country road in the
morning, as the heavy carts go by?
         The style of Berto1 should not be regarded as peculiar
to him alone, but as though it were in the third person. By its
 very naturalism, it must become a revealing way of thinking.
That is something one cannot do in poetry, but it should be
successful in a prose work.
         We think constructively when, upset by some shock
 in life, we look at ourselves from the outside, like separate
1   A character speaking in the first person in Pae.si tuoi. Ed.

                                                                    139
    This Business of Living
characters. Exactly the same thing happens when writing a
story, for fresh thoughts and problems arise with every scene.
Worthwhile thoughts are born when one strikes a pose foreign
to one's real nature, and observes oneself living in the attitude
of one's choice.
        So the art I invoked on gth October, '38, the art of
"looking at ourselves as though we were characters in one of
our novels," becomes understood as the way to put ourselves
in a position to think constructively and reap the benefit.

I8th October
         Passing judgment on people, or characters in a book,
means making silhouettes of them.
         Philanthropic times are times when beggars are put
in jail.

29th October
        It is not true that in our day novels are not written
because no one any longer believes in the stability of the
world. It cannot be true, for the nineteenth century novel
was born while a world was crashing into ruin, and even
served as a substitute for the stability the world was losing.
Now the novel is seeking a new code in the new world just
coming into existence, and cannot be satisfied to follow its
old outlines in this new world.
        An idea becomes fruitful when it is a combination of
two lines of thought, merging to produce something new and
full of zest. In the same way a novelist creates a character.

Ist November
        One generally feels kindly disposed towards a woman
if one finds that, in spite of all her cynicism, all her Hitlerism
and nastiness, she is capable of a human impulse of pity, of
gentleness. But more particularly we think kindly of ourselves
in such circumstances, deeply congratulating ourselves on our
own good thought. Rare though this may be ("a good deed
is easier than a good thought," cf. srd November, '38), note
     140
                                                      1939
that what is commonly called "a good thought" is a senti-
mental impulse of which we are all capable. As is shown by
film scenarios, even German ones.
        An example to illustrate what I said on 2gth October:
         -   -   Loneliness; bewitching visits by a young man
         -   -   Two days of fiesta. How they pass, conden-
                 sation
         -   -   Discovery of syphilis in the young man
         -   -   Great moment of political activity concen-
                 trated into those two days; frantic desper-
                 ation of the young man
         -   -   He feels driven to commit some crime or
                 other, because of
                      - loneliness
                      - those days of fiesta (Pause)
                      -syphilis
                      - political substitution
       Taking away the political angle (which comes from
NIZan), what remains is the bewitching visit to the upper
room, all that happened during the two days of fiesta (magical
incantation), with the torment of the discovery of syphilis-
which drives him to crime.

5th November
        Why do we find any new writer tiresome? Because
we do not yet know enough about him to visualize him in a
social environment we would feel confident in sharing.

1oth November
         Being ashamed to indulge in a spontaneous bit of dev-
ilry is one way of becoming aware that we are no longer young
 ( cf. 14th October). It is an apt theme for revealing that youth
is over. One's aim should be not to mention youth in the
story, but let it be deduced from whether or not the character
refuses to let himself go. If mentioned at all, it could be in
the title: Youth is past. And, at bottom, is the thought: "See,
                                                        141
     This Business of Living
I will not do those things any more: the mistakes I make now
will be well thought out; circumscribed, not universal."
        Also because casual, high-spirited mischief calls for
plenty of spare time and a willingness to put up with discom-
fort, which we no longer have at thirty.

 18th November
        You do not like Merimee, precisely because of those
qualities that make him an "exquisite artist!' You feel he is
a man who disregards any sincerity of atmosphere, holds him-
self aloof, hashes up multi-colored pictures of a false, bor-
rowed society. He changes his background like changing his
clothes. He cannot bring alive a drama of a man in his own
environment; even where it is tragic, it is tragic only by hear-
say, by supposition; it lacks roots in the background (Carmen).
The exact opposite of Stendhal, who lives in high society
with the zeal of a fanatic, of a sainted demon.
        Cf. my note on 28th July, '38, ruling that every worth-
while plot consists of "seeing how a particular character ex-
tricates himself from a given set of circumstances, i.e., his
background, atmosphere." Then Merimee, who does not be-
lieve in atmosphere, cannot take a single one of his plots
seriously and make it convincing.

xgth November-Sunday
        Reading Landolfi makes it clear that your motif of
the goat was the motif of the bond between man and the
animal kingdom. Hence your taste for prehistory, the period
that gives us a glimpse of a community of interests between
man and wild beasts. Hence your own research into the origin
of imagery at that epoch: the link between a first object (us-
ually human) and a second (usually animal) which should be
something more than a simple piece of imagery.: evidence of
a living bond. All that was already grasped (15th September,
'36) when you commented on Uvy-Bruhl and noted that
imagery, to a primitive mentality, was not a play of expression,
but positive description. ( Cf., also, in Lavorare stanca, No-
    142
                                                        1939
vember, '3·h your first realization that imagery could be a
theme for a story, your way of escape from naturalism.) The
imaginative story would be an account of this bond, i.e., in-
stituting a symbol. ( Cf. 6th November, '38). Furthermore,
the imaginative story, looked at clearly ( cf. 24th October, '38)
must believe that what it relates really happened, i.e., must
regard the imagery as a truth, existing even beyond the written
page.
        A somewhat similar psychological affinity occurred to
you earlier (29th October, '39), when you said that an idea
becomes fruitful when it is a combination of two discoveries.

26th November
         In his Purgatorio, Dante never turns back to survey
the panorama, for the reason that he is not realistically de-
scribing a journey, but expounding a creed, using the scene
and making it visible only in so far as it serves to give his ideas
a bodily form. Thus he is not obliged to respect the natural-
istic logic of reality.
         At the end of the century, the theme of the discord
between art and life-the artist who feels ineffectual and out
of touch with reality-put a stop to all the romantic auto-
biographies that seemed inadequate after the wild outbursts
of genius and folly in the eighteen hundreds.

28th November
         It could be that children are more routine-minded
than adults, but we do not realize it because they live at war
with adults, and are forced to follow their habits in secret.
In fact, adults do their best to break all the habits of children,
suspecting that they contain an element of opposition and an-
archism. But in the field of games, where children enjoy
relative self-government, their close observance of custom is
very plain-their love of ritual and formulae, their super-
stition about places and so on. It even acquires, unconsciously,
a special importance as a vindication of their independence of
adults.
                                                         143
     This Business of Living
        Since it is difficult for we-little-folk-to-do-things-like-
grown-ups, difficult in itsell and because grown-ups are so
distrustful, the child tends to create rules for himsell in his
own affairs, to stay in the same rut, encouraging himsell with
what he has already done. Remember your own habit, when
you were five, of crying as soon as you sat at table, quite with-
out reason. But you liked doing it because you had tried it
before and it was your own apecial way of behaving.

4th December
         Wrote to Pinelli: ". . . reverting to some of my ideas,
the work is a symbol in which the characters, just as much as
the setting, are the meaas of presenting a little parabola, the
ultimate root of inspiration and interest: the 'path of the
soul' in my own Divina Commedia."
         "My language is very different from a naturalistic
impressionism. I did not write in imitation of Berto-the only
one who says anything-but translating his meditations, his
wonderment, his raillery, ~ he would have expressed them
himsell, had he spoken Italian. I introduced errors of syntax
 only to indicate occasions when his own spirit grew scornful,
 involved or tedious. I wanted to show, not how Berto would
 write had he forced himself to speak Italian (that would have
 been dialectic impressionism), but what his own words would
 be, had they been changed into Italian by some new Pente-
 cost. In short, his thoughts.,

 Ioth December
         The symbol I spoke of on 6th November, '38, and on
 4th December (I Fioretti), is an imaginative link forming a
 network that underlies the discourse. I am talking of recurring
 points of contact ("epithets/' as in the classic example of 6th
 November) that indicate a persistent, imaginative significance
 in one of the material elements of the story (a tale within a
 tale)-a secret reality coming into bloom. For example, 'the
 "breast" in paesi tuoi-a true epithet expressing the sexual
 reality of that countryside.
      144
                                                       1939
         No longer an allegoric symbol, but an imaginative
symbol-an additional means of expressing the "fantasy," the
st'Jry. Hence the dynamic quality of these symbols; epithets
that appear and reappear in the story are characters in it,
adding their effect to the material completeness of the dis-
course; not substitutes that rob reality of its very breath and
lifeblood, like the static symbol (Prudence, a woman with
three eyes) .
        A parallel to this method is to be found in Dante, not
so much in his allegory as in his imagery. On this point one
could quote many lectures and analytical studiea The 23rd
Canto of the Paradiso can inspire you. All these phenomena
of light express the luminous reality of the place, and even
its hidden reality as the "meeting-place of all created things''
 (thunder, sunshine, birds, the moon, song, flowers, precious
stones).

I 2th December
        Every artist tries to take to pieces the mechanism of his
technique to examine its construction so that, if necessary,
he can use it "cold." Nevertheless, a work of art is successful
only when, for the artist himself, it has a certain element of
mystery. It is quite natural: the story of an artist is the suc-
cessive improvement upon the technique employed in his
previous work, with a fresh creation that imposes a more
complex aesthetic law. Self-criticism is a means of self-im-
provement. The artist who is not continually analyzing and
breaking down his own technique is a poor one. ( cf. 8th
November, '38.)
        It is the same in all activities, the logical rule of life
throughout history. But, as much in art as in life, ever since
romanticism came into existence, there exists in this rule of
logic an ever-living danger: that of deliberately deciding
where the mystery shall lie, so as to guarantee oneself the
desired creative urge. But the mystery that stimulates creation
must come about of itself, through an obstacle encountered
unawares during the course of our very effort at clarification.
                                                        145
     This Business of Living
Nothing is more obscene than an artist (or a politician) who
coldly plays around with his own mysterious unreasoning
intuition.
        To take the mystery to pieces in order to use it "cold"
in one's work (without the agony of creation) is the impulse
behind the whole history of the spirit. Herein lies the dignity
of man, but also his temptation.

14th December
        We want Realism's wealth of experience and Symbol-
ism's depth of feeling. All art is a problem of balance between
two opposites.

21st December
       Love is the cheapest of religions.

25th December
        A true artist talks of art as little as possible in his
creative works. (Otherwise he is not an artist but a virtuoso
of art.) He who has merely mastered the labor of art has
not yet passed the stage of preparing his tools; he is not yet
qualified to speak in the world as a grown man.

27th December (Morning)
         A russet acropolis. On the opposite hill, a great cluster
of buildings and pal.aces (the city where all is planned and
assured). On the walls are painted two large pictures, visible
from the acropolis. One is allegorical-a throng of women and
symbolic devices; a hovering female figure (typifying Venice
in Verona), borne aloft on palm branches with other women
circling round her. In the foreground is a calm, majestic
woman letting pearls drop from her fingers into a vessel. (But
one does not see her dropping pearls, one knows she is doing
so.) Just as in a story when, without describing it (making us
see it), the author says: "She fingers her pearls."
         I suddenly realize-having already seen it in imagina-
tion-that this woman is Italy. The dancing girls and the
    146
                                                     1939
palms are symbols of the sea that surrounds her. Here is proof
that while dreaming of this figure, I attributed to her, by im-
plication, a significance of which I was quite unaware. Who
gave her this significance?
         (The dream is certainly a result of my visit to Venice
in February, 'sg~)
         It seems to me that at other times I have dreamed of
the crests of strange 'hills, seen from below or halfway up, and
covered with mulberry trees or in the open country. Who
knows when or why?
         There are two possible explanations. Either this is the
first time I have dreamed of this Piedmont town of paint-
ings (by Carpaccio, as I know in my dream), and my
impression that I have walked its streets before and seen it in
the past (in other dreams) is due only to a recognition of the
temporal nature of the dream, whereby every moment we
dream is hom with its own temporal, retrospective landscape.
Or it really is a dream I have already dreamed on other nights,
of other similar cities on the crest of a hill (not Venice, per-
haps, in that case, but Siena and Genoa) reduced to the
proportions of a rustic dance? Then the world of our dreams
is a r.1ine with a vertical shaft, down which we are conveyed,
as in an elevator, to varying depths where there are fixed
dreams that we see again each time. Even so, it cannot be said
that the tempo is our normal one, or the construction of dreams
 (sedimentary layers, geological strata) would be even more
remarkable: not a single dream creating the illusion of a past
implicit in itself, but a whole temporal network underlying all
Qur nights, all our slumbers, taken together. It would really
be an existing world that we enter each time we sleep (and
our dreams are waiting for us at different depths; we do not
create them.)

31st December
       When the creators of the stile nuovo invented the ever-
present "chorus" of friends and womenfolk to whom the poet
addresses his discourse, they had discovered the justification
                                                       147
     This Business of Living
for their poetry which is the celebration of this community and
consists of the cordial expression of one's own thoughts, re~
turning full circle.
        All national poetry begins with circles of that sort,
detaching from the social body a limited, "conditioned" group
made up of listeners and collaborators.



1940
1st January
        Not much done. Three works: Le due stagione, I Paesi
tuoi and Il carretiere. The two stories are things of the past,
of some value, perhaps, in that they satisfied an impulse I
had and proved that I can decide upon a style and sustain
it, but that is all. The little poem is just a trifle, but shows
some promise. I hope to go back to it with renewed zest when
I have considered it more fully and thrown off my present
mood for narrative.
        As for my thoughts, I have not expressed them so
expansively in these pages but I have gathered a varied,
mature, rich harvest of them, and, above all, I feel thoroughly
fit to make lively use of them. As '39 ends I am full of aspira-
tion, confident of myseH from now on, tense as a cat lying in
wait for her prey. Intellectually I have the same agility and
pent-up energy as the cat.
        I no longer rave. I have lived for my creative work:
and have acquired peace of mind. On the other hand I have
grown very much afraid of death, terrified that my body might
let me down.
        This has been the first year I have lived with dignity,
because I have applied myself to a definite plan.
        Artists like Dante (the stile nuovo), Stendhal and
Baudelaire are creators of stylized situations: they never lapse
into fine phrases because they conceive a phrase as the prime
     148
                                                        1940
cause of situations. They never let themselves go when they
write because, for them, filling a page means creating .an
 abstract situation that evolves inside a closed circle, on a
restricted plane with laws of its own, quite different from real
life. On the other hand their opposites (Petrarch, Tolstoi,
Verlaine) are always on the verge of confusing art and life,
and r if they make mistakes in their art it ~ in their phrases,
whether they are fine or clumsy, not in creating stereotyped
situations as the others do. They have a tendency to extend
their art into their practical life (Petrarch-a humanist; Tol-
stoi-a saint; Verlaine-a man accursed), and they are nearly
always successful men as far as their practical life goes. (They
are also frustrated in their art for existential reasons; cf. 26th
November, '39, paragraph 2.) Men of the first group, on the
contrary, are always failures who do not mourn their lack of
worldly success (as some of those uninhibited types do to please
the common herd), but they build another world where their
bitter, day-to-day experience is filtered through their intelli-
gence, and allowed to appear in their work only if it accords
with the construction. Great authors of decisive works are men
who never write a page to give vent to their own super-
abundance, but ponder over it and shape it in their minds
before the work is begun.
         They are great theorists about art-the problem they
are always brooding over-while the others write as sponta-
neously as breathing, singing, living. My favorites are the soli-
tary ones, the ascetics who ask nothing of life beyond the real-
ization of their own clear vision of art, of morality, of political
truth. All that the others ask is experience, and their works are
merely diaries that reflect those experiences.
         Flaubert is, quite unconsciously, a travesty of my kind
of artist. (Cf. my criticism of 17 February, '38, which shows
that although art, for him, is a closed circle, self-controlled,
created by intelligence; man's moral nature, considered as a
whole, does not come into it. Consequently his fine phrases are
mere phantoms. )
                                                         149
     This Business of Living
        It could be that the stylized situations I spoke of are
not intended as actual descriptions of reality but as parables,
and the characters in the story are symbols of imaginary
qualities or events.

grd January
       There is a type of man accustomed to thinking that
life owes him nothing, not even on the score of work he has
done or an ordeal he has endured: nothing from anyone on
any pretext whatever, not even from those he has helped.
Consequently he gives nothing to others except for his own
pleasure. Myself exactly.

8th or gth January
         The proof of your own lack of interest in politics is
that, believing in liberalism (i.e., the possibility of ignoring
political life), you would like to enforce it autocratically.
You are conscious of political life only at times of totalitarian
crises, and then you grow heated and run counter to your own
liberalism in the hope of quickly bringing about the liberal
conditions in which you can live without bothering about
politics.

I Ith January
        From the thirteenth century to the sixteenth, Italian
poetry concerned the world of the nobility; it began with the
conception of nobleness of heart (the stile nuovo), admired
nobility of behavior and fashion ( Boccaccio), recreated the
idea of chivalry ( Bioardo), and lapsed into irony and theo-
rizing ( Ariosto and Castiglione). As it died it gave way to
Shakespearian witticism and to the neo-classical good taste of
the grand siecle, reappearing as a nostalgia for the past and as
a standard of life in certain romanticists ( Stendhal, Baude-
laire).
        Periods of great productivity in literature are preceded
by a generation of intensely active translators. The closer his-
tory approaches our own era, the more does the fusion of two
        150
                                                          1940
civilizations take place, not by flesh and blood, but on paper.
Instead of invasions we have translations.

21st January
        At first, power served ideologies; now ideologies serve
power.
        Things which cost nothing are those which cost the
most. Why? Because they cost us the effort of understanding
that they are free.

22nd January
         ( Cf. 27th December, '39·) The features of a dream are
engendered and strung together out of some dominating ex-
perience of the previous evening that grows disjointed in our
mind and becomes a kaleidoscope, symbolic of the "passion"
and excitements of the night before. (As Dante said: "after
the dream, passion makes its mark.") This explains how it is
that the world of a dream has its own temporal, retrospective
setting-the reality of the experience that remains in the
background of the figurative symbolism that is the dream.
         Furthermore, it is understandable why the dream un-
folds itself like a coherent story, one, that is, in which a par-
ticular detaU comes to acquire an ulterior importance that was
already implicit in its first appearance. We do not know what
is going to happen, but we, ourselves, are the "passion" of
the dream and the mass of impressions of the night before. We
are, in short, like a narrator who knows (sees within himself)
the second symbolic phase of one of his ideas, but not the
first, the symbolic figuration. Little by little, as it passes before
his eyes, this will come to life, full of imminent developments,
starting points that the story itself will interpret, giving them
meaning. Dreaming is like writing a symbolic story already
known in spirit and in process of development as to the letter.

26th January
       Nothing can be a consolation for death. All the talk
about the inevitability, the value, the importance of that step
                                                           151
       This Business of Living
leaves it increasingly stark and terrifying, and is nothing more
than a proof of its enormity, like the derisive smile of a con-
demned man.

rst February
        Just like Proust: when you had to do without coffee,
you no longer found the serenity of nerves that you needed
before you could use your imagination. Then you got accus-
tomed to it (Paradiso           rui
                               tetti, Paesaggio, and the plot of
La tenda) .1 Now there is coffee, and it seems to you to coun-
teract imaginative serenity.
        Anger is never sudden. It is born of a long, prior irrita-
tion that has ulcerated the spirit and built up an accumula-
tion of force that results in an explosion. It follows that a fine
outburst of rage is by no means a sign of a frank, direct nature.
It is, on the contrary, an involuntary revelation of a tendency
to foster an inner spite, the sign of an envious, introvert tem-
perament and an inferiority complex.
         T4e advice to beware of a man who is never in a
temper (22nd July, '38) because one is sincere only when
self-control is forgotten (7th December, '37), amounts to say-
ing that, since all men inevitably accumulate hatred, you
should be especially on your guard against men who never
betray themselves by bursts of anger. As for you, there's no
harm done if your spite is kept secret, but you are wrong to
betray yourself with a fit of rage.

gth February
         In general, the man who is readily disposed to sacrifice
himself is one who does not know how else to give meaning
to his life.
         The profession of enthusiasm is the most sickening of
all insincerities.

18th February
        Once the fervor of a monomania has lapsed, it has no
central idea that might give significance to random moments
1   La tenda was the original title of La bella estate. Ed.
        152
                                                      1940
of inner reflection. In short:, the more the spirit is absorbed
by a dominating mood, the richer and more varied is one's
inner breadth of vision.
       One must look for one thing only, to find many.

Igth February
       The characters in your poems tend a little too much
to have odd, i.e., picturesque, ways of earning a living.

21st February
        It is easy to preserve a lordly manner, an aloofness, a
disdainful familiarity or an aristocratic imperturbability with
people from whom we want nothing. They are not of the
least importance, merely a game to us, a pretext for a pose,
like animals (that do not bite) . That sort of behavior is called
superior. But the moment we have to ask for something we
are no longer even equal, but inferior, for the reason that the
other man could refuse to give it to us.
        Perfect behavior is hom of complete indifference.
        Perhaps this is why we always love madly someone who
treats us with indifference; she represents "style," the fasci-
nation of "class," all that is desirable. Here is the answer to
your endless thoughts in '37-'38 on the necessity of never
giving yourself completely to a woman you want to possess-
especially 16th November, '37, paragraph 2.

22nd February
        The interest of this journal would be the unforeseen
profusion of ideas, the periods of inspiration that, of them-
selves, automatically, indicate the main trends of your inner
life. From time to time you try to understand what you are
thinking, and only as an afterthought do you go on to link
your present ideas with those of days gone by. The originality
of these pages is that you leave the construction to work itself
out, and set your own spirit in front of you, objectively. There
is something metaphysical in your confidence that this psycho-
logical sequence of your thoughts will shape itself into a ·well-
constructed work.
                                                       153
     This Business of Living
        That is how lyrics are written, as you have said in
certain poems not yet finished. Would the difference between
"poems" and "thoughts, be merely illusory? Is it enough to
say that thoughts are attempts to clarify a problem for your·
self, and poems are attempts to create a universal picture? I
do not see that it is enough.
        The problem is the same for the collected works of a
whole life: each is a construction in itself, of course, but taken
all together do they form merely a succession or a constructive
sequence? It is a sophism to recall that centuries in literature
have no existence in factual historiography. A century is an
empiric, abstract unit, but a life, an individual, is something
more than that.
        Certainly something more in that he lived and devel-
oped himself; but is there an implied unity of construction in
his work as a whole, arising from the mechanical succession
of days and his own self-criticism as each stage is completed?
What one calls a metaphysical unity.
        Conversely. A single work, well constructed, does it
come about other than by welding together, after considering
them separately (and before making the final draft, of course),
the diverse fragments?
        We shall see, one day, that our common faith in poetry
will cause envy.
        It happened that I became a man when I learned to
be alone; others when they felt the need for company.

23rd February
        The superhuman greatness of Shakespeare is plain, not
only from his works, but also because he died leaving two
thirds of them unpublished, including Antony and Cleopatra,
Macbeth(?) and many comedies.
        Such an extraordinary thing leads one to imagine that
at the beginning of the seventeenth century the idea of pub-
lishing was not yet very widespread and that it was believed
that once a book was written it would naturally go down to
posterity. But then, how can we explain the texts in the form
     154
                                                     1940
of parts for individual actors, that Shakespeare knew were left
in that disjointed, corruptible state? It cannot be said that he
lacked the time or leisure to attend to it. There you have
wisdom so vast that it borders on cosmic irony. A superhuman
gesture.

24th February
        The persons or the institutions that we mah. . espon-
sible for keeping us happy have the right to complain if we
remind them that we nevertheless still consider ourselves free,
with power to rebuff them if we so decide. Everything we fall
short of achieving for ourselves, makes our liberty that much
less. The patient in the hands of the doctor is like society in
the hands of a deliverer, whether a hero or a political party.
        What? You commission him to reorganize society-that
is, yourselves-and yet you claim to remain free?
        For the very reason that no such thing exists as a
purely economic society, every scientific economic organization
carries with it the affirmation of a subtle power, that is, a
government manifesto that intrudes upon the inner life, and
just as the organizer should eliminate every economic heresy,
so will he have to eliminate every heresy of private opinion.
The society, completely controlled economically, is a contra-
diction of a society with complete spiritual freedom.
        "Moral idealism" is a collective notion. The individual
has no moral ideal, because in his absoluteness (the eternal
present) he does not conform to a standard but just is. (Berg-
son, The Two Springs.)
        If society cannot become absolute, inasmuch as one of
the individuals it contains can always rebel against it, neither
can an individual become absolute for any length of time,
because though he may reach that state at one moment, he
can lapse from it the next.
        This goes back to what I said on 22nd February, '40,
and denies, in short, that a life composed of a mechanical
succession of moments, even those of which it is most conscious,
can shape itself like a metaphysical construction. In fact, the
                                                       155
     This Business of Living
mechanical succession of thoughts falls into the same pattern
as time, realized empirically. For an experience to have a
metaphysical value, it must be dissociated from time. In prac-
tical life that seems to happen only in an isolated moment-an
escape from time.
         The "falseness of poetry" (grd October, '38)-the
substitution of absolute for empiric time--becomes more en-
trancing than the "kingdom of heaven," because the latter is
realized only for brief instants, but the former is experienced in
constructions that, though they count as a single absolute
moment, give more prolonged pleasure and sometimes embrace
lengthy periods of empiric time.

                          *      *     *
         The unity of a work will therefore consist of the inter-
dependence of all its moments at one and the same period,
absolute, or metaphysical.
         Hence the difficulty of determining it, apart from the
indicative development of its own events and phenomena, for
us who are accustomed to examine life always according to the
pattern of empiric time and who, in practice, know absolute
time only as the negation of empiric time, in matters of ethics.
 (Hence, by the way, the individual nature of a work of art, as
of a moral act: experiences that by their very nature are non-
collective because they are absolute.)
         It is easy to create a "momentary" work of art, a
"fragment," just as it is easy to live a moment of morality, but
to create a work that transcends the moment is difficult, just
as it is difficult to live for longer than a single heartbeat in the
kingdom of heaven. The art of organizing the kingdom of
heaven for longer than a moment (saintliness) is on the same
level as organizing the work of poetry beyond the fragmentary
stage.
         You have defined the first as practically impossible (in
so far as you consider morality, basically, as being composed
of isolated moments), but you hope to succeed in the second,
which shows that your vocation is poetical, not ethical.
Satisfied?
     156
                                                     1940

26th February
        As in time, so in space. Poetry and Painting. In a
poem, empiric time should not exist, just as, in a painting,
empiric space should not exist.
        To create a work is therefore to make absolute one's
own time, one's own space. One of the best accredited methods
was always to introduce some sentimental intensity which,
as is well known, transforms empiric time and space. (An
hour filled with strong passion is longer than an hour by the
clock. Note that boredom is a strong passion, and therefore
having nothing to do makes time longer, in so far as it fills it
with tension.)
        What you call contemplation (your own poetic char-
acter) is the transition from the empiric plane to the poetic
plane.
        The hypothesis that evolution progresses (De Vries)
by means of sudden mutations of the germ (which then per-
petuate themselves by natural selection [J. Rostand, H eredite
et Racisme] ) , accords with your own experience that the inner
life (the creation of concepts and imaginative ideas) does not
progress by developing one thought from another (one indi-
vidual from another, in biology), but by sudden intuitions
 (invariably transmutations of the germ), which only later
reveal their connections with previous intuitions and their
ability to perpetuate themselves (by inner selection) .
        My notes on 29th Octt>ber and 1st November, '39, show
another parallel between the inner life and biology. Two
concepts or two imaginative ideas, once they are considered
jointly, produce something of more value than one concept
or one such idea, considered singly. A cross between widely
divergent races often produces extremely happy individuals.

27th February
       The analysis of 24th February, in which you deny
the possibility of a life being a metaphysical construction, in-
asmuch as the total of its significant moments would be an
empiric succession, is false.
                                                       157
    This Business of Living
        There remains the possibility that the empmc suc-
cession of eternally significant moments (moral actions, poetic
creation, imaginative perceptions) may afterwards be inter-
preted or used to form a vital construction.
        All the more so since it is admitted ( 22nd and 26th
February) that any work of construction is always made
from sudden flashes of illuminating thought-metaphysical
moments--that are later fused together, i.e., shown to be
capable of unification.
        It might be that no thought, however fleeting, however
secret, passes from the world without leaving a trace. That
is certainly true for every single individual. Still, it would be
interesting to know if it leaves a trace on things, not only to
the extent that the individual, affected by that thought, what-
ever it may be, may use it differently, but actually on the things
themselves-in the case, for example, when the individual dies
in the very act of thinking. Which is a way of believing the
world has a soul, and that is another matter.

Jst March
        The balance of a story lies in the coexistence of two
things: the author, who knows how it will end, and the group
of characters, who do not. If the author and a protagonist
become merged, as with a story in the first person, it is essen-
tial to increase the stature of the other characters to restore
the balance. Therefore the protagonist, if he relates the story
himself, must be primarily a spectator (Dostoievsky: "in our
district"; Moby·Dick: "Call me Ishmael").
        If the story is told in the first person, it is evident that
the protagonist must know, from the beginning, how the story
is going to end. Unless you make him talk in the present tense.
        Your conception of style as one's inner life working
itself out (cf. 24th October, '38; 5th November, '38) tends
to transport the story to the present tense and the first person,
thereby nullifying the balance between the one who knows
and the one who does not. Hence the impossibility of a con-
struction devised as a game of perspective between the present
     158
                                                        1940
and the past (or the future). The fine thing about the theatre
is that all the characters appear in the first person and the
present, but do not know how it will end.

gth March
         Naturalism has taught novelis~and by this time we
all have ~t in our blood-that nothing that is not action should
come into the story. Once it was usual to describe the setting
that was part of the action, and the events, objectively; now
all that is described as seen through the eyes of the character;
but everyone has grasped that one must no longer digress. Just
as in naturalism the author had to vanish for the sake of
reality, so he now has to vanish from the sight of the char-
acter.

17th March
         If it were possible to have a life absolutely free from
every feeling of sin, what a terrifying vacuum it would be!
         It can be said that this feeling ("the forbidden thing")
is in life what the difficulty of the material is in art; that we
should all be bored to death, and artists first, if it were not
difficult.
         Naturally, the joy of life is in one's struggle with this
feeling, the expedients, the compromises. Better to have it and
disobey it, than not to have it at all. To know that there are
certain things we cannot or should not do is most alluring,
( cf. your Adamo e Eva and the 17th September, '38, para 7).

25th March
        It is not true that a man, like yourself, who is used to
living on little, liking simple things taken quickly, suffers less
when he finds himself reduced to the austerity and privations
of war or some similar event. Why? Someone used to refine-
ments, profusion, a wide choice, when faced with harsh reality
will discover the charm of what is simple and plain; you, on
the contrary, cannot go lower and have nothing more to
discover.
                                                        159
      This Business of Living
         The living, vital balance of a book arises from the
contrast between the naturalistic logic of the events that unfold
beneath the writer's pen, and his preconceived idea, kept in
mind, of an inner logic that dominates him like a legend. The
first struggles inside the bonds of the second and becomes over-
burdened with symbolic feeling-stylistic conceptions, as one
calls them. The farther apart these two ways of living are, the
more exciting and thr:illfu.g is the publication of the book ( cf.
14th December, 'gg).

28th March
        The geographical adjectives of Latin poetry ("ante
tibi Eoae Atlantides abscondantur,) are, when considered, the
finest possible way of making a myth, submerging the im-
agined reality in the long ago and far away. This is the only
exotic thing that the mind of antiquity was capable of pro-
ducing: legend turned into definition and limited to the sym-
bolic meaning-for everything had limitations, then. This
shows exactly how the symbol (the allusion?) became style.
( Cf. your earlier thought.) Cf. especially the note on 1oth
December, 'gg, defining the symbol.

29th March
          You must acknowledge that the magnificent promises
of science-to-come terrify you and you would gladly see them
come to nothing. Not because science creates murderous
weapons of war (some equivalent defense will always be
found; and, anyway, it is not the killing of men that worries
you: one comes into the world to die), but because science
will one day be able to provide similar means of control over
the personal and physical life of the individual ("sincerity
test," sterilization, and so on) ; or will find substitutes for man
himseH (robots) ; or interfere with his inner and physical life
 (artificial insemination, the <;lassification of his habits, statis-
tical control of his actions a la Taylor, etc.), so that life will
no longer be worth living. The typical conclusion of the futur-
istic novels is, in fact, after a description of the highly con-
     160
                                                      1940
trolled mechanism of life on those lines, a climax of sheer
boredom that drives the masses to break loose, killing them-
selves and going mad to escape from the nightmare. In short,
to die, whether by the sword or a death ray, is nothing; to
live scientifically seems appalling. One comfort is my thought
on 25th October, '38.

7th April
         One man may seem to you older than his age, and
another always appears younger than his actual years. They
a'.re two distinct types of men; probably they have other differ-
ences. You belong to those who are younger than their years.
At thirty, you do not believe you are so old.

16th April
         It must be important that a young man always intent
on studying, turning over pages, satisfying his eyes, should
have produced his great poetry in moments when he went
out on the balcony, into the woods, over the hill, or strolled
on green turf. Poetry is not born of "our life's work," of the
normal course of our occupations, but of those moments when
we lift our head and are stunned with our discovery about
life. (Even normal routine becomes poetry when we meditate
on it, that is it ceases to be mere normality and becomes some-
thing wonderful.)
        So one understands why adolescence is great poetic
material. It appears to us-when we are men-like a fleeting
moment when we had not yet bent our heads over our jobs.

19th April
         Generations do not age. Every youth of any period, any
civilization, has the same possibilities as always.
         The Empire did not fall through the decadence of
the race (how true that is, is shown by the fact that genera-
tions that witnessed the fall, and those which followed, have
built out of it a spiritual empire, the Catholic Church), but
through changed economic and social conditions that wasted
                                                        161
     This Business of Living
their strength (economic atrophy, provincial decentralization,
the admission of barbarians, and so on).

20th May
         The Paradis artificiels describe Baudelaire's real para-
diso, they are his plan of campaign: only, they repudiate any
suggestion that it might be permissible to attain this paradise
by trickery; rather do they insist that all this inner world
should be a work of intellectual toil and sweat. In short, ·they
argue against the concurrence of drugs, yet reaffirm their
virtues. (Especially the 4th chapter of L'Homme-Dieu, which
is his authentic poetry.)

21st May
        If it is true that a man marries, for preference, his
opposite (the "law of life"), that is because we have an in-
stinctive horror of being tied to someone who displays the
same defects and idiosyncrasies as ourselves. The reason is
obviously that defects and idiosyncrasies, discovered in some-
one near to us, rob us of the illusion-which we formerly
fostered-that in ourselves they would be eccentricities, ex-
cusable because of their originality.

28th May
        Faulkner's figures of speech (Sanctuary) are dialectic
and imaginative: for example, "crazy as a cow on a bicycle,"
or when he describes the eyes of a deaf old man as being
"turned inwards to show the backside of the eye-balls," or
Temple who thinks about becoming a man and feels like
a tube fallen over as does the finger of a glove-flop! They
are all Elizabethan metaphors; "Fate is a spaniel; we cannot
beat it from us"; narrative images, not contemplative, sub-
stituting for the object an expressive indication; the images
that create a language.

29th May
        Toumeur's The Revenger's Tragedy could have been
the story of an embittered avenger who, as he sets to work,
       162
                                                    1940
discovers that everything he values dearly is corrupt or on
the point of corruption, and that is how it looks in the scene
with the mother Graziana {Act II, Sc. I) and the speech of
the daughter Castiza in Act IV, Sc. IV. Except that the
mother quickly repents and the dllughter pretends to do the
same. Thus the tale is reduced to a game of intrigue and
bloodshed between the avengers and ambitious luxury-loving
courtiers; Vindice does not, in the course of five acts, make
a single ethical discovery or gain a new experience, but me-
chanically carries out his revenges and then is punished, just
as mechanically. His last words are by ,no means the inspired
swan song of Shakespeare's characters, or of Flamineo and
Victoria in Webster's White Devil, but a flash of spiteful
pique after a rash action that destroys him and which, with
any sense, he could have avoided. "We die after a nest of
dukes" is too paltry.
        Tourneur's imagery, of the type in 28th May:
       " ... •sfoot, just upon the stroke
       jars in my brother; 'twill be villainous music";
       and, about a poor man, he says:
               " ... hope of preferment
               will grind him to an edge. . . ."
1st June
        Why do people adopt poses, play the dandy, the
skeptic, the stoic or the careless trifler? Because they feel there
is something superior in facing life according to a standard
and a discipline they have imposed on themselves, if only in
their mind. And, in fact, this is the secret of happiness; to
adopt a pattern of behavior, a style, a mold into which all
our impressions and expressions must fall and be remodeled.
Every life lived according to a pattern that is consistent, com-
prehensive and vital, has a classic symmetry.

5th June
       Grief makes one live in a dreamlike world of fantasy
where banal, everyday things take on a bewildering, thrilling
                                                         163
     This Business of Living
aspect, not always displeasing. It makes one aware of the gap
that separates the spirit from reality; uplifts us, lets us view
reality and our own body as something remote and strange.
Herein lies its educational effectiveness.
        The reality of war suggests this simple thought: it is
not sad to die when so many of your friends are dying. War
gives one a sense of being one of a group. Welcome! Come
on in!

gth June
        The man who has a dominating passion consequently
hates the human race because they all seem to him, as far
as his passion is concerned, rivals, usually opponents.

12th June
       War raises the tone of life because it organizes every-
one's personal, inner life in accordance with a very simple
pattern-the two opposing camps-giving one the idea that
death is imminent and so investing the most banal actions
with an air of importance more than human.

13th June
       A declaration of war is like a declaration of love. One
becomes the equal of the enemy, to rise or fall with him (or
her) . We blame the enemy for the same spiteful outrages
that-once we are in love-we are more than ready to com-
mit ourselves, and for the same reason-offended humanity.
What you said on 12th June about war you can say again
about love.

14th June
       The reason why any dirty trick is permissible in politics,
where the crucial test is clever or stupid, not good or bad,
seems to be as follows: The political body does not die and
so does not have to answer for itself before any God. The
sole exclusive reason for individual morality is that one day
we will die and we do not know what will then happen.
     164
                                                       1940

16th June
         (Air-raid warnings.)
         These shrieking noises, the dull, heavy thuds, the
explosions that make us all tremble nowadays, were not only
taken calmly, before the war, but were not even noticed.
Every passion-in this case, terror-creates a particular sensi-
bility towards its own stimuli and pretexts, and reveals a
whole province of objective life that formerly passed unob-
served. As long as we have passions we never cease to discover
more about the world.
         The abstractly descriptive nature of Doeblin's Giganti
shows that Berlin-Alexanderplatz, even in the passages that
seem crammed with human experience and meditations, was
composed only of blunt, commonplace, everyday truth, de-
scribed, not dramatized; a defect common to much of the
narrative prose of today, your own included.
         Doeblin, Dos Passos, you; if you want to escape super-
ficial realism, you fall into abstract expressionist construction.
Above all, you lack a sense of drama.
         You must learn not only to be many different charac-
ters (Dos Passos succeeds in that), but also to create these
characters, choosing them and selecting their individual fea-
tures (the portraits Dos Passos gives can be transposed from
one of his characters to another).

18th June
        The creation of parliamentary government provides a
focus for the conflicts between king and nobles. The need
for parliamentary government is felt when oligarchies become
decadent, not when monarchies (or dictatorships) fall, for
then oligarchies are born.

21st June
       To animate nature by describing it in terms of human
behavior ("the field was relaxing under the water'') is origi-
nally a dialectic device, in so far as it reverts to the most in-
                                                        165
      This Business of Living
stinctive imagery ("the rain was murmuring") and, substan-
tially, reduces the description of things to the presentation of
eccentricities. We can say, then, that impressionism is a matter
of caricature.
         The point of conflict between your work and life is
your need for expression in the first, and your need for con-
tact with your neighbor in the second. As long as there is a
man who is hated, unappreciated, ignored, there will be some-
thing in life to do: draw near to him.
         Your poetry is necessarily dramatic because its mes-
sage is the meeting of two people--the mystery, the charm
and the adventure of such encounters--not the confession of
your soul. Till now you have preferred contrasts of setting
 (north against south, town against country) because these
vividly accentuate the contrasts between the two people.

23rd June
         To express life, one must not only renounce many
things, but must have the courage to remain silent about
that renunciation.
         The aestheticism of English literature in the nineteenth
century-the fine imagery from Keats to Hardy, the sustained
Oxonian atmosphere-is a reflection of Elizabeth.
         There is a connection between Dostoievsky's simple,
rambling phraseology and his inventions, all of them clever
and closely reasoned. The force with which he feels life is
expressed not in vivid imaginative ideas but in dramatic,
visionary realities made of the stuff of daily life. Compare with
Plato: the logic, the myths (the dialogues and the visions of
Dostoievsky) .
         Defoe is the greatest English novelist because he is the
least affected by Elizabethan influences. His voice is unmarred.
The others, even Dickens, reflect the seventeenth century,
either in their poetry or in their humor. They are imaginative
and express themselves in images, but no longer have the lusty
instincts and wit of the Elizabethans. They indulge in rhetori-
cal phrases and keep nothing concealed from their characters,
consequently they are not dramatic.
     166
                                                        1940
       A story can be dramatic even when there is only one
character visible (Defoe) . But in this case it is really a contest
between a man and his surroundings.

24th June
         Tess of the Durbervilles does not come alive because
not one of the characters, not even the eccentrics, has his own
way of speaking. How does Tess talk? And Angel? In the
language of the author. That envelops everything, but still
it is a rich, abstract, and sometimes sober method of descrip-
tion which serves to present a most powerful scene (the meet-
ing of Angel and Tess at Sandbourne) (Ch. LV.) in which
the pathos comes alive, but not the characters. (Melodrama.)
         Melodrama is when the characters speak through the
external pathos of the scene, existing not as persons but as
lay figures that lend a verisimilitude to the emotional drama.
But the characters should be treated with respect even in the
story, otherwise it tends towards melodrama, which is, in art,
what ambition or hedonism are in life.
         Of course one has the right to use characters, not so
much to produce an effect but rather as a means to construc-
tion; just as in life, not for sentiment or experiment, but to
realize a significance.

27th June
       From an old race one expects a great solidarity, respect
for the law and so on. To a young race, many things are
permitted. Youth and age in peoples, are youth and age in
the ideologies from which they have sprung. It follows that
a young ideology may do many good things badly, for the
simple reason that we do not yet see clearly how far they are
wrong, or whether, on the other hand, they are surgical inter-
ventions. But from the old, all one asks is obedience to the
law.

28th June
       Even in history it happens that when a thing would
be pleasing, it does not come about: it will appear when it
                                                         167
    This Business of Living
no longer makes any difference. Old empires fall when they
have become peace-loving, civil and beneficent; but when a
power is impertinent, illegal and violent, no one can stop it.

srd July
         All this talk of revolutions, this craze for seeing history
in the making, these monumental posturings, are the conse-
quence of our being saturated with history. We have grown
used to treating the centuries as if they were pag6S in a book,
and claim that we hear the trumpet blast of the future every
time an ass brays.
         Furthermore, seeing everything through the eyes of
history, we judge by ideas, abstractions which ought to tri-
umph in the end, more or less, and we no longer know what
a man may be. We have reverted, that is, through our broad
doctrines, to the times wheri. the very name of enemy was
hated, the most religious of all barbarous customs. But there
is a difference from those times: we are not precisely religious.

6th July
        We teach only that which incontestibly exists, as tech-
niques do. For the rest, to teach a thing we must believe in
its absolute value, which exists even without us; we must
believe in it objectively.

7th July
        Aesthetic values, the essence of morality, the light of
truth, cannot be taught. Each man must create them within
himself. They are absolute, outside of time and of society ( cf.
27 August '39 and 24th February '4o), and therefore cannot
be communicated. Words can convey only an outline of them.

8th July
       The heroines in Dostoievsky's books can never decide
which suitor to take. (Nastasia Filippovna hesitates between
the prince and Rogozin; Katerina Nikolsievna between Ver-
silov and the young man; Grusegnka between Dmitri and
     168
                                                      1940
Feodor Karamazov.) The negative pole at one time (Ro~
gozin) is positive at other times (Dmitri) . The women are
never protagonists; they are always seen by others.
        The Adolescent is weak, not because it talks more than
is usual about consumptives, but rather because it is the most
panoramic of Dostoievsky's great novels. It lacks that scene or
series of scenes which epitomizes and absorbs the whole fever~
ish story, a kind of unexpected jungle in the desert; and the
story is long drawn out, watered down into a chronicle; i.e.,
there are contiimal outbreaks of crises, intrusive and imposing,
but they are continual recapitulations, never decisive; like a
car engine that roars and never gets into gear:

gth July
        It is not through reflection and knowledge of myself
that I am unhappy, but rather when those things areJacking,
as Leopardi did not say.

1oth July
        This war has produced perhaps the richest crop of
treacheries that has ever been known; which indicates a revo~
lutionary climate-a climate, that is, where the initial state
of things is gradually changing and the general standard of
discernment is beginning to differ from the views of this or
that group.

13th July
         Of The Decline of the Middle Ages, Gerson, Chancel~
lor of the University of Paris, says: "the contemplative life is
full of dangers and has driven many men into melancholia
or madness." First, he makes a distinction between the man
who blasphemes for the sake of doing something wicked, and
one who speaks without thinking about the seriousness of it.
He judges the religious life by its respect for dogmas, but
feels that is not enough and introduces psychological yard~
sticks, reviewing individual cases to assess whether their in~
tensity may not be pathological.
                                                      169
     This Business of Living
        He condemns John of Varennes who, because of
his craze for purity, said that an unworthy priest administering
the sacraments made them null and void, thus blowing sky
high the whole complex ecclesiastical structure. He analyzes
the dulcedo, the fervor of the modem devotees of the Low
Countries (retired bourgeois who maintained the rapt ecstasy
of exalted religious emotion with a tranquil air of friendliness
and unction), and finds that the faithful content themselves
with that, forgetting God. Ruysbroeck's idea of self-abnegation
to become one with God does not suit Gerson, because then
one may claim to sin no more and so lose one's responsibility.
        Historically, these mystics live on visions of hunger,
thirst and luxury. From the dulcedo they pass to pleasurable,
carnal acts of devilry-witches' revels. That is the reason for
the spread of witchcraft in the sixteenth century, and the
decadence of true piety, the belief in symbols in materialistic
fashion.

14th July
        The medieval tendency to see something universal in
every object or individual-not Fra Dolcino, but the heretic;
not Henry VII, but the Emperor, and so on-is like our habit
of viewing individuals according to their class or nation. With
the difference that then there was the absolute dignity of the
individual soul (the problem of salvation), but that exists no
longer.
        Extremely perceptive is the discovery of Huizinga (pp.
goo-go I) that medieval realism, where everything is crystal-
lized into essential realities, even the most fleeting thoughts
and phenomena, is, in essence, materialism. ( Cf. the Thesaurus
of the Good Deeds of the Saints.) Sin is a corruption of the
blood; Christ washes away sin with His blood. Metaphors
that become real.

21St July
        In Dostoievsky there is never the story of a natural
reality (man, family, society) but rather fragments of an
     170
                                                       1940
 over-emphasized, keenly-reasoned mass, strung together like
 anecdotes in the course of a discussion (the myths of Plato) .
 The only story that is more natural is Crime and Punishment.

22nd July
        To dream that you come home from prison to a
princely dwelling with salons and staircases and find there a
group of family friends to whom you are introduced, while
you wait with the utmost curiosity for, the arrival of your
father and mother so that you can see what types were
selected to produce you, is another instance of a dream like a
novel that one reads without knowing how it will finish;
where, that is, the reader and the central character coincide.
A dream is a creation of the intelligence, the creator being
present but not knowing how it will end.

23rd July
       Another strange thing about dreams is that, unless one
immediately seizes upon them, thinks them over and relives
them, one does not remember them. A dream is not so much
our own as a story composed by others, because while listening
we are never as passive as while dreaming. Yet, beyond all
doubt, we create the dream ourselves. We create without
being aware of it, that is the extraordinary thing about a
dream.

 25th July
          A case in which tyrannical injustice meets with no
 opposition and goes smoothly is when it is exercised against
 a group which is clearly defined and not very numerous.
          Writers who please us by their very existence, by their
attitude to life in general ( Stendhal, for example) are usually
stylists even in their writing.
         Artists are the monks of the bourgeois state. In them
the common man sees, actually functioning, that life of contact
with the eternal that the peasants of the middle ages saw in
the friars.
                                                       171
     This Business of Living

26th July
       Spent with Gognin.

27th July
        The things of this world (the things we do, nature not
being included, of course) are symbols of reality, our own
or that of others. It follows that the wiser one is, the less one
is disposed to sacrifice one's sensual life to do honor to a vain
and arbitrary symbol.
        Here is a case where the apparent realism of thought
is shown to be defeatist and where, instead, transcendentalism
is wholly a matter of discipline, giving the symbol a tre-
mendous significance. The believer will let himself be killed
rather than commit an action which is a symbol of evil. To
a fervent spirit, everything is a symbol. Look at a man in
love.
        Or perhaps it does not follow that actions are symbolic
in idealism, and natural objects in transcendentalism? A thing
can be a symbol only when it is brought into the world by a
creative spirit.
        Anchorites used to ill-treat themselves in the way they
did, so that the common people would not begrudge them
the beatitude they would enjoy in heaven.

28th July
       We do not remember days, we remember moments.

1st August
        All libertines are sentimentalists. First, that stems from
their long, verbal pretense to be so; then, from their contact
with women, which makes them used to all that is delicate,
soft and formal; but above all it arises from considering the
relations between men and women as a field, not of duties,
but of emotions. The cure for sentimentalism is to become,
not cynical, but serioug..minded.
                                                     1940

2nd August
        In dreams, the dreamer is always very cowardly and
puts up with things he would not tolerate in life. He com-
pletely lacks any moral or social sense, and becomes a cluster
of instincts.

5th August
        We must never say, even in fun, that we are dis-
heartened, because someone might take us at our word.
        It is a certain sign of love to want to know, to relive,
the childhood of the other.
        We feel moved and full of tenderness when someone
feels his state is inferior to our own, just to our own. If,
instead, he envies and covets another man's condition, he does
not interest us and may even wound us.

7th August
        Gognin's way of life. Freedom of judgment in sexual
and social affairs; as though living among viveuses and
viveurs. But inside, reserved, bashful, virginal. Any breakaway
is usually at times of transition: new forms, but the spirit as
of old. Not, as people think, vice versa.
        Forms change first, then the things of the spirit. The
power of the word, the form, the style.

8th August
        Life is not a search for experience, but for ourselves.
Having discovered our own fundamental level we realize that
it conforms to our own destiny and we find peace.

11th August
      One of the most unpleasant things in life is to strike
the wrong note, even in a simple phrase. Thus it is easy-
too easy-to give a certain tone to a character in one's art
                                                      173
     This Business of Living
and never be able to change it. This is why there are many
"ideal'' types in novels, and readers love them.
         We hate a person when her tone is wrong.
         Happy marriages are apparently few, for novelists
find nothing to say about a happy marriage.
         There is no doubt that you prefer people who do a
thing because they must, to those who do it by instinct. Of
course, this compulsion is not only their present trend. A con-
firmation of your theory about style and tone (25th July and
earlier, on 1st June).

12th August
        Love and poetry are mysteriously linked, because both
are a desire for self-expression, for talk and communication,
no matter with whom. An orgiastic desire for which there is
no substitute. Wine can induce a fictitious state of the same
sort, and, in fact, a drunkard talks and talks and talks.

14th August
        A man succeeds in completing a work only when his
qualities transcend that work.

16th August
        The idea that mistakes do not exist, that, instead,
they may be "portals of discovery," postulates the other idea
that it is one's duty to be lucky; that is, the intelligent man
never makes mistakes, which means he is lucky. Or he makes
them and they turn to his advantage. Ideas suggested by
Gognin, who says that for women it is a duty to be beautiful.

17th August
        Gognin's way of talking at random, capriciously put-
ting a subject aside and going back to it when the fancy takes
her, has become a style. Anyone who accepts and adopts it
she treats as a friend. She likes doing it and makes a habit
of it. The power of a style !
    174
                                                    1940
19th August
        "       like all sensual men, a coward." "Sensual"
does not mean a hot-blooded man, but one who has no idea
of seH-control and considers that the only pleasures are those
of the senses. He lacks inhibition.
        Sensuality is sentimentalism. In fact, the most senti·
mental songs and music are hom in the corrupt atmosphere
of the smart cafe.

21st August
        To sit on a bench with a man, except in a cafe, is
taboo for a virgin.
        Whatever people say, the fastidious, formal manner
of the upper classes is preferable to the slovenly easy-going
behavior of the common middle class. In moments of crisis
the first know how to act, the second becomes an uncouth
brute.

31st August
         There is nothing more stupid than thinking one can
make a conquest of a woman by showing off one's own
cleverness. Cleverness cannot compete with beauty in such a
matter, for the simple reason that it does not arouse sexual
excitement; beauty does.
         At the most, one may win her in that way when one's
abilities seem a means of acquiring power, riches, social
position-advantages that, by yielding, she will also enjoy.
But cleverness itseH, like an immense impersonal machine,
leaves any woman quite unaffected, a truth you must not
forget.

6th September
       As for love affairs, we only tolerate our own.

7th September
       The central idea in Proust-that situations and people
are forever changing in ways one cannot grasp, so much so
                                                     175
      This Business of Living
that by the time we achieve our desire we find it fails to
satisfy us--is like Croce's view that situations and people are
the consequence of practical causes; they never control us
fully, but, once reached, change to the opposite of what they
were at first.
        The difference is enormous: for Proust, it is an incen-
tive to withdraw from life, for Croce, to fling oneself into it.

gth September
        I can see the scene. She is always wandering off,
changing her mind, getting up from table, interrupting the
conversation, going to the telephone, and so on. If anyone
reminds her of her duties, she replies: "It is your fault if you
fail to interest me and keep me sitting."
        Such an answer presupposes that inner hardening of
adolescence, because it implies that things would have been
different if her companion had been different. A fallacy one
is prone to credit, in youth, but not later, when one grasps
the truth that whatever happens is one's own fault.

I2th September
       Practical life evolves in the present; contemplative life
dwells on the past. Action and memory.

2 I st September
        There are certain trivial, commonplace actions that,
when I am out of humor, I ought to find soothing-making
my bed when I stay at home in the morning; spending money
lavishly to entertain someone who expects it; washing myself
with plenty of soap, and so on. But they give me an instinctive
revulsion, and to do them-when I happen to think of them-
I have to make a great effort. This is the effect of a stern
upbringing upon a nature that was extremely sensitive and
shy. Yet my parents were not cruel or exceptional. Children
who have really been ill-treated, what state inust they be in?
        I always find it strange, even astounding, to realize,
     176
                                                       1940
all of a sudden, that there are some things I can do peacefully
without anyone forbidding them or grudging me the pleasure
they bring; there is nothing to stop me enjoying an action
instead of just doing it. This explains my poetic capacity:
after being hardened, I am discovering the thrill of melting
and growing tender, a thrill that will last until all my child-
hood problems have vanished into thin air. (Thoughts inspired
by a kind word from Gognin.)

The night of 29th September
       Pf I I I I

goth September
       The best defense against a love affair is to tell your-
seH over and over again till you are dizzy: "this passion is
simply stupid; the game is not worth the candle." But a lover
always tends to imagine that this time it is the real thing;
the beauty of it lies in the persistent conviction that something
extraordinary, something incredible, is going to happen to us.
       Mter all, the events of 25th-2gth September carry
out what I said in my triumphant thought of 4th November,
'g8. The only trouble is that in practice it is not too trium-
phant. My affair with Gognin (provided it is all over) has
been a repetition of '34-'38.

5th October
      No, it is not all over.

7th October
        Can it be true that you fall in love only with women
who are very popular (the ballerina, Gognin) and that what
pleases you about them is that they are desired by everyone,
that you suffer because you are not the only one to possess
them? The really clever thing, in affairs of this sort, is not
to win a woman already desired by everyone, but to discover
such a prize while she is still unknown. (Cinderella.)
                                                       177
    This Business of Living
1oth October
        There is an art in taking the whiplash of suffering
full in the face, an art you must learn. Let each ·single attack
exhaust itself; pain always makes single attacks, so that its
bite may be more intense, more concentrated. And you, while
its fangs are implanted and injecting their venom at one spot,
do not forget to offer it another place where it can bite you,
and so relieve the pain of the first. Real suffering is made up
of many thoughts. You can think only one thought at a time,
so learn how to dodge from one to another, and you will
relieve each seat of pain in tum.

12th October
        Love has the faculty of making two lovers seem naked,
not in each other's sight, but in their own.

14th October
        To see again the woman you have been desperately
longing for, the one you have been thinking of every single
moment for a fortnight, has almost the effect of disillusion-
ment. The real woman is different from the one you have
been dreaming of, more definite, yet more evasive.
        Women are utterly, fundamentally, indifferent to
poetry. In this they are like men of action, and all women are
"men of action." It seems that they are interested in it, from
adolescence, for one subtle reason only: poetry is born of a
bacchanalian exaltation, an exaltation that lies at the root
of all that women regard as real. Even when they are in-
experienced or superficial, women never confuse any other
emotion with the real, active, vital emotion that seizes them
when confronted with life itself.
        Great lovers will always be unhappy, because, for them,
love is of supreme importance. Consequently they demand of
their beloved the same intensity of thought as they have for
her, otherwise they feel betrayed. It does not please a woman
 that a man thinks of her day and night, for she does not
think of him all the time.
     178
                                                     1940
        It is not true that, with the passing of years, love
becomes less dreadful. To all the usual pangs-jealousy, desire
and so on, is added the terrifying thought that time is slipping
by beyond recall.
        No one renounces what he knows; we renounce only
what we do not know. That is why young men are less
egotistical than adults or old men.

15th October
         We obtain things, when we no longer want them.
         To console a young man who has met with some mis-
fortune, we say: "Be strong; bear it pluckily; you'll know
better in future; it happens once to everybody," and so on.
No one thinks of telling him the truth: "The same thing will
happen to you twice, four, ten times-it will always be hap-
pening, because if you are so made that you left your flank
unguarded once, the same thing is bound to occur again."
         Classification of women: those who exploit others,
and those who let others exploit them. Classification of men:
those who love the first type, and those who love the second.
         The first are honey-tongued, well-mannered, fine
ladies. The second are sour, discourteous, incapable of being
self-possessed. (What makes them rude and hasty-tempered
is their thirst for tenderness. )
         Both types confirm the impossibility of human fellow-
ship. They are servants and masters, not equals.
         The sole heroic rule is to be alone, alone, alone.
         When you can pass one day without assuming or
involving the presence of others by a single action or a single
thought, you will be able to call yourself heroic.
         Another way is to be as Christ, that is to annihilate
self. But, as you said yesterday, no one renounces what he
knows, and you know too many things.

I7th October
      One cannot belie one's own nature. You wanted to
do something strong, to withdraw like a self-possessed stoic,
                                                       179
      This Business of Living
and you have put yourseH in the position of not having with-
drawn, and not being able any longer to enjoy the natural
company you had before.
         The bitterest lesson of this new kick fate has given you
is that you have not changed at all or corrected anything by
your two years of meditation. You have even lost the con-
solation of thinking that you might still be able to get out
of this slough by meditation.

20th  October
        Your particular trouble-which all poets have-is
that, due to your vocation, you cannot have more than one
public, yet you keep looking for twin souls.
        Artists interest women not as artists, but in so far as
they have achieved worldly success. That is natural. To marry
is to make a social position for oneself, and what man-even
the most altruistic-would involve himseH from choice in a
business that was not sound? So with women, and rightly.
        Even self-sacrifice (or renunciation) is a problem of
astuteness. You are always talking of astuteness, you who were
born for something very different.
        What distinguishes a man from a child is knowing
how to master a woman. What distinguishes a woman from a
child is knowing how to exploit a man. (The second group
of women I spoke of on the 15th is, substantially, a group
of children, souls incapable of self-mastery.) But then, children
or adults are born; they do not change. So console yourself.

21st October
        Since what a man seeks in his pleasures is that they
should be infinite, and no one would ever give up hope of
attaining that infinity, you see why all pleasures end in dis-
gust. It is nature's device for tearing us away from them.

22nd October
       A person counts for what he is, not for what he does.
Actions are not moral life; the way we treat others is only
    180
                                                       1940
well or ill. Moral life is the eternal, immutable existence of
the ego. Actions are only the ripples on that sea whose real
depths are revealed only in tempests, or not even then.

2srd October
        I am not ambitious; I am proud.
        The active life is a feminine virtue; the contemplative,
masculine. One significance for my presence in this century
could be the mission to explode the theory of Leopardi and
Nietzsche that the active life is superior to the contemplative;
to show that the dignity of the truly great man lies in not
giving himself up to toil, social life, the mere trivia that pad
out existence. Without, of course, ceasing to follow Dostoiev-
sky's advice on the way to live. Whatever passions may come.
But not forgetting that one counts for what one is, and not
for what one does ( 2 2nd October) .

24th October
        Only a man in love knows how to employ love's
strategy.

soth October
        Suffering is- by no means a privilege, a sign of nobility,
a reminder of God. Suffering is a fierce, bestial thing, com-
monplace, uncalled for, natural as air. It is intangible; no one
can grasp it or fight against it; it dwells in time-is the same
thing as time; if it comes in fits and starts, that is only so as
to leave the sufferer more defenseless during the moments
that follow, those long moments when one relives the last
bout of torture and waits for the next. These starts and
tremors are not pain, accurately speaking; they are moments
of nervous vitality that make us feel the duration of real pain,
the tedious, exasperating infinity of the time pain lasts. The
sufferer is always in a state of waiting for the next attack,
and the next. The moment comes when the screaming crisis
seems preferable to that waiting. The moment comes when he
screams needlessly, just to break the flow of time, to feel that
                                                        181
     This Business of Living
something is happening, that the endless spell of bestial
suffering is for an instant broken, even though that makes it
worse.
        Sometimes there comes the suspicion that death and
hell will also consist of pain like this, flowing on with no
change, no moments, through all time and all eternity, cease~
less as the flow of blood in a body that will never die again.
        Oh! The power of indifference! That is what has
enabled stones to endure, unchanged, for millions of years.

3 I st October
         Here is the proof that you are wholly made of pride:
now that she has given you permission to telephone or write
to her, you not only do not do so, but you do not even feel
any burning desire to contact her. Which could also be a
proof that, in everything, we seek only future possibilities.
If we know we can do a thing, we are satisfied, and perhaps
do not do it at all.

Ist November
        Fernanda expects to find in a poor man the virtues of
the rich (refinement, delicate feelings, all the social graces),
and in a rich man the virtues of the poor (seriousness, simple
expediency, labored kindness, etc.).

2nd November
       If a man does not save himself, no one can save him.
        I have Dften noticed that what I eventually find most
valuable and full of meaning, always displeases and repels
me at first.

8th November
       If we accept Freud's Essays on Psychoanalysis, all
thought is born of our instinct about death. It is a force that
binds all the fleeting, Dionysiac, libidinous emotions of life
into a pattern that satisfies the self~love of our ego. The ego
     182
                                                      1940
tends to revert towards calm, to be seH-sufficient in its im~
mobility and absence of desire.
        That is a truth one can appreciate when one is suffer-
ing and trying to analyze, understand, settle one's own crisis,
and, in fact destroy it.

9th November
        Everything our body does, other than the functioning
of the senses, escapes our notice. We know nothing of our most
vital processes-circulation, digestion, and so on. It is the
same with our spirit; except for the superficial pattern of
ideas, we are ignorant of its activities and changes, its crises.
        Nothing but an illness makes us aware of the profound
workings of our body. In the same way we realize those of
our mind and spirit when we become unbalanced.

12th November
        We feel pity only for those who have none for them-
selves.

24th November
        Hemmed in by railings and iron grilles, separated into
many different groups ( = swimming pools). F. lets in three
men (the three Sicilians from the shelter tonight), self-
possessed, taciturn, their smiles threatening. As she opens,
F.'s expression grows hard. I am the prisoner of these three-
1 feel fully aware of it, and every now and again I glance at
F. who says nothing and looks hard. I think of how she has
for so long tried to trap me, make me fall into these men's
hands ( = intelligence mysteriously obtained from the general
public, but also perhaps a brother). Which brother darkly
promises himself to get to grips with me on the matter of his
sister F. and her studies. Their fists are heavy and they joke
among themselves, watching me out of the corners of their
eyes. The sense of danger coming from them is extremely
strong and keen.
                                                        183
     This Business of Living
        Until I swing open a barrier and furtively dash away,
calling to F. that I'll be seeing her and will explain then.
Meaning that I do not think she has betrayed me.

soth December
       Foscolo, Prose letterarie, Le Monnier.
       Vol. II, p. 65: "then the man who is capable of the
strongest feelings has the liveliest ideas."

        Lessons in eloquence:
         p. I 29: "In the history of literature, so many men
who could congratulate themselves upon gaining some real,
tangible honor have nevertheless, after their initial, noble
efforts, set aside their work and preferred to remain unknown,
even though they may not have found, in leisure and obscurity,
the contentment and peace to which they so modestly aspire."
         p. Ig, note: "R. Cartesio states, as an axiom: "Nature
has endowed men with equal reasoning faculties (Disc. de
Methodo, no. I): Jean Jacques Rousseau begins his Contrat
Social with this phrase: Man is born free. Both errors are
always extremely prejudicial to literary philosophy and to good
government."
         p. I 52 : "so you would fall into that very disillusion,
the one error that a man ought carefully to avoid."

        On the text of the Decameron:
         Vol. III, p. 20: "Nor is it any less true that the various
dialects have always played their part in the formation of a
national literary language in Italy, a language never spoken
by anybody but always understood by everyone, and written
more or less well according to the skill, the artistry, and above
all the heart, of the writers."
         p. 38 (dialects as literary language) : "The old com-
edies of Tuscany, and the Venetian ones by Goldoni, are the
best: but they would be very coldly received by the people
of Rome, Lombardy, or the kingdom of Naples."
         p. 41 (Boccaccio): "All the others wrote in ways
     184
                                                      1940
that were different from his, but will anyone maintain that
he wrote exactly as he spoke, and that the language in his
writings was the dialect of the Florentine people, neither more
nor less?"
        p. 42 : "-if only because this art, essential with every
language, is most difficult for Italians, for they have no Court,
no capital city, no parliaments where the language may be
enriched by the flow and modification of ideas."
        p. 43: "by its literary essence, Italian is the only mod-
ern language that has preserved almost all its harmonious,
clear and graceful words, all its elegant turns of phrase, for
five centuries and more."
        p. 58: "Elsewhere I have, I hope, established that the
language of Homer was not devised as a mosaic of different
dialects, as is generally supposed. But it was indeed studied
by poets and historians to impart a literary quality to the
dialects of their towns, so that by writing in the same way
they would be more acceptable to the whole of Greece
 (History of the Aeolic Digamma)."
        p. 76 : (Cruse a) : "However, it still remains the dic-
tionary of a dialect and not of a language."
        On the text of Dante,s Poem:
         p. 1 I 7 : "Greek and Roman writers • • . not because
they taught theories of natural liberty and inalienable rights,
when, for them, it was rather that all rights and all obligations
were decreed by fate and by victory."
         p. 120: "opinions can never prevail except when they
have the backing of governmental power, which alone enables
them to progress."
         p. 32 I : "Languages, when there is a nation, are a
public inheritance, administered by the eloquent; and when
there is no nation, they remain an inheritance for men of
letters; and authors of books write only for authors of books."
         p. 382: "I think, and I am sure it is true, that very
many passages, especially the didactic and allegorical passages
in the Paradiso, were thought of first, and composed some
                                                        185
      This Business of Living
long time before the Poet was really master of his language
and his art. For seldom in the Inferno, and still more rarely
in the Purgatorio, does he have to be satisfied with the crude
latinisms, ambiguity of syntax and uncouth expressions that
now and then spoil the Paradiso."
        p. 453 : "from which of those ideas does poetic fantasy
more naturally spring?"
        p. 458: "D. made use of them: and with them the
more common meanings of the same word, about the duration
of. time, constancy and the increasing power of the action.
This explains what he said to his Interpreter, which otherwise
would seem an enigma: "that many a time and oft he made
words in his Rimes mean something different from what
later writers used them to express" ( L'Anonimo). As a con-
sequence, the conflict of concomitant ideas springs spon-
taneously and powerfully from his speeches."
        p. 4 79: "Nevertheless, the language, for those who
founded it, was written, never spoken; and consequently,
since books do not conform to successive pronunciations, the
vocal organs have to obey the eye."

       Sulla Lingua Italiana (written in England, in Italian):
        Vol. IV, p. 180 (The Language of Homer): "the
progress of its words is always simple and naturally gram-
matical. Its phrases are never overburdened with metaphors,
never applied to metaphysical ideas, nor to thoughts or
feelings which are, so to speak, intangible. So that, if one
were to take away the meter from the verses, and if the Iliad
and the Odyssey were reduced to prose, they would seem
romantic stories full of marvels, like thousands of others written
today in language and style a thousand times worse... /'
        "Dante's poetical language . . . has never been, and
never could be, used as a model for prose compositions."
        p. 197: "Finally, Thucydides uses words as if they
were passive material, and sometimes forces them to condense
more passions, more ideas and reflections than they can
    186
                                                      1941
contain; he handles his language like a tyrant. While Boc-
caccio caresses it like a lover..•."
        p. 2 I o ( Petrarch) : "But his language is that of the
author, rather than of the nation.,
        p. 2 I I : "Villani, the most idiomatic of Florentine
writers."
        Cf., for his trends and his analytical capacity as a
novelist, his Saggio d'u.n Gazzettino del Bel Mondo (addressed
to the reader and expressing the resignation of the forties)
and his Fragments, especially the roth: " ... I, with my heart
hardened by experience"; the preface to the great translation
(Didimo Chierico a' lettori salute) where he describes Sterne:
". . . and his eyes, sparkling with desire, lower their gaze as
if ashamed"; the whole of his N otizia intorno a Didimo
Chierico; the Lettera Apologetica; the extracts from his Atti
dell' Accademia de' Pitagorici (a humorous, doleful essay of
the same type as Bel Mondo) ; his translation of Sentimental
Journey, and of Degli effetti della fame e della disperazione
sull' uomo, taken from Crevecoeur's Voyage en Pensylvanie;
and, lastly, his youthful attempt in ]acopo Ortis. He did not
b~come a novelist, perhaps because he found himself in Sterne
and was content to translate him, but his type of humor was
exactly the same, as is shown in B~l Mondo, the Atti and
various fragments.




1941
I.f.th January
         To perceive what style is, it is sufficient to read any
prose passage of Foscolo and then some of his prose translated
from English, even by U goni. Better still: first read the trans-
lation, then a piece of his original prose-the Lezione In-
augurale, for example.
         If, this year, you have not examined your conscience,
                                                        187
      This Business of Living
it is because there was more need for you to do so than ever
before. You were in a state of transition and lacked clear
inner vision.

goth January
         This gentle benevolent feeling of love for humanity
that comes over you on a cold day-when you are spending
a few moments in a cafe and notice one man's thin, sad face,
another's twisted mouth, the kind, sorrowful voice of a third
-and you give yourself up to a sentimental, luxurious surge
of pity and grief at so much daily suffering, that is not real
love for your neighbor, but complacent, expansive intro-
version. At such moments we would not lift a finger for
anyone: we are, in fact, blissfuly happy in our own tranquil
futility when faced with life.
         If even the silent reading of a poem, t<> get to know it,
is a form of interpretation, then I no longer see how one can
form a historical judgment of a poem, if knowing it means
creating another poem in one's own mind. Should we be
judging this other one? And what of the universality of
historical judgment? Its truth? (On reading Pugliatti, Vinter-
pretazione musicale.)
2nd February
        Friend P. is filled with a good-natured, obstinate sense
of his own merit, which shows itself even in the characteristic
way he holds himself aloof from anyone else's affairs, his
impenetrable reserve like that of a peasant who tolerates no
intrusion by others into his own field of activity. He is a man
who never has a doubt about his own behavior, and so knows
nothing of the nervous tension others feel when brought into
contact with the world. If he were not an "artist," if, that is,
he had not cultivated his innate aptitude for observing, with
keen, impersonal interest, the manner and appearance of any
man he meets, he would be a typical yokel. A good deal
could be said about this "disinterest" of his. Can you call a
faculty "disinterested" when he employs it unremittingly in
    188
                                                      1941
 the active building up of his own world, permitting no un·
productive deviations, such as reading anything that has no
 bearing on what he imagines to be the culture of the theatre?
Has he ever known a vital experience, some contact with
real life that shattered him because it was outside his original
plan for his career, made when he was young?
         He is a Catholic, and presumably believes that humility
is a duty, yet he is so made that he accepts all the distinctions
of life as his due, without excitement and without surprise.
That is as he planned. When I tell him he knows nothing of
psychology, I do not mean he is ignorant of the mechanical
human reactions on which he builds his play, but that, outside
the "possible" psychology used in art, he has never, in reality,
lived through a time of psychological doubt, an illness of the
spirit-one of those maladies that alone can make us probe
and glimpse the depths of consciousness. One would say that
he rejects these experiences in corpore sui, possibly for the
reason that he sees no practical advantage to be gained from
a malady. One thing is sure: even if he were to let himself
go tomorrow, work up a psychological crisis and probe into
it, his purpose would be to glean material for a tragedy, not
to satisfy a vital necessity. His vital necessities are already
satisfied by that inexorable "schema" of his, so typical of a
catholic peasant and, for what the word is worth, egotistical~
         Hence the melodramatic tone of his best pages. His
writing, precisely because it is pure dramatic art (due perhaps
to this tone), has always been-until now-literature. I do
not see how he can change.
         Perhaps P. has never known adolescence-of the sort
that makes one meditate on suicide. And the penalty for this
deficiency is a special, perennial adolescence of the spirit,
which, underlying all his virile achievements (dignity, family,
sense of responsibility, success) makes him, not a creator, but
a man of letters of a new type. That, after such an exposition,
l still love him, almost as much as I could love a woman, is
quite understandable: P. is the antithesis of myself and of
my experiences.
                                                       189
    This Business of Living
        P. has something feminine in his calm, sensible egotism.
That, too, belongs to adolescence-the adolescence that means
simplicity and calm, refreshing grace.

3rd February
         What is there, really, in my fixed idea that everything
lies in the secret, loving "inner self" that every creature offers
to anyone who knows how to reach it? Nothing, for never
have I been able to attain that loving communion of spirit.
         Basically, the secret of life is to act as though we
possessed the thing we most painfully lack. In that lies the
whole doctrine of Christianity. To convince ourselves that
everything is created for good, that the brotherhood of man
really exists-and if that is not true, what does it matter?
The comfort of this vision lies in believing it, not in whether
it is real. For if I believe it, and you, and he, and everyone, it
will become real.
         On 18th January, '41, I finished La Spaggia.

Ioth February
         Marcel Raymond: De Baudelaire au Surrealisme:
        After the three "lighthouses" : "But the real thing, the
absolute, if you like, you do not dream of finding here at the
end of a chain of concepts or an argument, you expect to
discover it in passages that are definitely psychic. A new
sensibility, infinitely delicate ... psychological perception ...
that is the faculty a modem poet must possess." ( p. 48. )
         ". . . the most recent poets willingly admit, in prin-
ciple, that the gifts of their ego do not belong to them per-
sonally, but are manifestations of a universal spirit." (p. 261.)
         "What is new is entirely a matter of surprise," says
Apollinaire (p. 273).
         Dada: "Only the unconscious does not lie'' ( p. 3 1 6) .
         Dada: "It is always a question of knowing whether the
linguistic accidents that happen each time one breaks tradi-
tional associations without giving it a thought, in order to
copy a model or express a sentiment, are only inconsequential
     190
                                                       1941
trifles, or whether they may in certain circumstances, almost
without our knowledge, correspond to something that really
does exist'' (p,. 324).
         Surrealism: "Every surrealist text presupposes a return
to chaos; startling combinations of totally dissimilar words,
new possibilities of synthesis reveal themselves sharply in a
lightning flash, (p. 332).
         ". • . allow evidences of another nature to take shape
involuntarily, unconsciously, purely psychic evidences, if that
is possible, which affect us in a certain inner poetic sense that
may perhaps merge itself with our deepest feeling about life"
 (p. 333).
         Criticism of surrealism: "surrealist texts . • . we are
led to regard them as products of culture, and of culture in
its most advanced form-a very different thing from the result
of the free exercise of that faculty of verbal invention which
is more or less generously distributed to all men" (p. 335).
         Surrealist definition: "to penetrate a world where
freedom would be infinite" (p. 337 )-"childhood is perhaps
the nearest approach to true life" ( p. 338).
         Breton: "Everything leads us to believe that there
exists a certain point, spiritually, from which life and death,
 the real and the imaginary, the past and the future, thingg we
can communicate and things we cannot, and height and depth,
 cease to be viewed as contradictory. Now, one would seek
 vainly, in surrealist activities, for any stimulus except the hope
 of determining this point exactly" (p. 430).
          Criticism of surrealism: "our dream is worth as much
 as our sleepless nights" ( p. 365) .
          After Rimbaud, his pupils "subordinate poetic activity
 to purposes that go beyond it" ( p. 391 ) •
         They view their art as less important than nature (no
 longer as sentiment, reason, imagination) , that art which is
 spontaneous thought, the stuff of dreams. Poetry cannot dwell
 in any particular form because it is a psychic phenomenon
(p. 392).
        ". . . the poem tends to become something other than
                                                          191
     This Business of Living
a more or less faithful expression, which one would appreciate
according to an inner pattern imagined by induction, or to
the special circumstances of a life. Ultimately, it would be
an object existing in its own right, disconnected from its
creator . . . an autonomous object, a meteorite fallen from
an unknown planet...." (p. 400).
        Evoke emotion not by a description, but by a fact of
nature: poetry is a sunset, a seashore, etc. La S paggia was
finished on 18th January, '41.

14th FebJUary
         In a dream, Fern. tells me she was just behind the
musicians and enjoyed "that divine trio."
         Shortly after, we go in-I do not see her any more--
and I see my musician friend settle himself behind the two
percussion players, close against the wall, and pretend to
conduct the orchestra with his hands (the players surrep-
titiously turn round to watch him) .
         Evidently, the musician is a more suitable person
than Fern. to do this-more suitable in imagination-so an
adjustment has taken place in the story, during the dream.
It is not a case of two successive facts, the second developing
out of the first, but the crystallization of a single fact, a single
state, that is first glimpsed in an embryonic form and then,
one might say, finds a richer, more appropriate expression
 (with a different person and a new significance, further en-
riching itself magically by adding coherent details which at
first sight were completely unknown to me) .
         Perhaps this is the explanation of the fact (27th De-
cember '39) that in the course of a dream certain details
seem to us to anticipate, in the story, other details that will
complete them. It would be simply a preliminary, embryonic
sketch which then shapes itself into something different. In
short, one would not be telling oneself a story, but conjuring
up a picture, a static situation, expressing a psychophysical
state, the dominating passion. The apparent unfolding of the
action, in a dream, would spring from the succession of un-
     192
                                                     1941
conscious, tentative efforts to define the vision more and more
clearly (first Fern., then the musician, doing the same thing).
Within the bounds of each separate vision there is, of course,
a certain natural sequence of events.
        As if someone were to show you a picture; then, im-
mediately after, the same picture with the figures altered and
retouched. If that were done rapidly and in the right way,
you have a cinematographic story, but a story in ·which every
sequence is a fresh attempt to say the same thing.
        Still dreaming, I noted that there are no antecedent
facts in a dream, everything is action, there is no repetition-
a pattern of evocative art.

2nd March
       LEVY-BRUHL.    £'experience mystique
        Ch. 1-Primitive man lets himself be seized by the
passion for a game of chance and even loses his all, for mystic
reasons; because, once launched on that course, what matters
to him is not the amount he has lost, but his need to prove
to himself that he is not deserted by the supernatural powers,
and what he owns is no more than a means to secure and
increase his hold upon that protection. Compare this with
your own tendency, when something in life has gone wrong
for you, to wallow in your unhappiness, to touch bottom, as
if to find in fate's absolute condemnation a confirmation of
absolute value-confirmation that your misfortune did not
come about by chance, but because in alio loco the powers
have a grudge against you, which could mean that in alio loco
you count for something.

4th April
        Nothing is more essential when beginning a work of
art than to make sure of a richly productive standpoint. The
simplest, most direct way of doing so is to draw on your
experience for something a little unusual and sufficiently
far-off, then work on the realistic complexity of associations
that it offers. But there is a technical method of constructing
                                                      193
    This Business of Living
a standpoint, which consists of arranging various spiritual
planes, various times and angles, various realities, and de-
riving from them intersecting cross-currents, a game of illu-
sions, a wealth of implications that you can devote all your
energies to developing as you please. A good example would
be my discovery this morning that the story of Corradino
could be told in the third person, but surrounding the events
with an atmosphere of the first person plural, which not only
gives a setting, a background to the over-free Corradino, but
-an immense advantage-would enable one to treat him
ironically.
         In anything, it is a mistake to think one can perform
an action or behave in a certain way once and no more.
 (The mistake of those who say: "Let us slave away and save
every penny till we are thirty, then we will enjoy ourselves."
At thirty they will have a bent for avarice and hard work,
and will never enjoy themselves any more. Others may say:
 "With this one crime behind me I shall be happy all my
life." They will commit their crime and will always be ready
 to commit another to conceal the first.) What one does, one
 will do again, indeed has probably already done in the distant
 past. The agonizing thing in life is that it is our own decisions
 that throw us into this rut, under the wheels that crush us.
  (The truth is that, even before making those decisions, we
 were going in that direction.)
         A decision, an action, are infallible omens of what we
 shall do another time, not for any vague, mystic, astrological
 reason but because they result from an automatic reaction
 that will repeat itself.

12th April
        One of the least noticed human pleasures is that of
visualizing a sequence of events, arranging a group of inci-
dents to give them coherence, a logical development, a be-
ginning and an end. The end is almost always imagined as
a sentimental climax, a peak of delighted, gratifying self-
recognition. This extends beyond the fabrication of a flight
      194
                                                        1941
of fancy and becomes a riposte--a cut-and-thrust defying the
set pattern of life. And what is that but the first step towards
the art of story-telling, the art that exactly satisfies this deep-
seated desire? The pleasure of telling a story, and of listening
to it, lies in seeing events arranged according to a precon-
ceived outline. Halfway through the story one can go back
to the beginning and enjoy finding the reasons, the clues,
the motives for the action. What eJse is it when one thinks
over one's own past, finding pleasure in recognizing the signs
that foreshadowed the present, or still foreshadow the future.
This reconstruction shows the significance. of time1 and story-
telling is, in brief, only a way of turning it into a legend, a
myth, and finding an escape from it.

14th April
      No woman marries for money: they are all clever
enough, before marrying a millionaire, to fall in love with
him.

27th April
         Rousseau, Les Confessions (L.IV, 1731-1732, p. 135,
ed. Flammarion) :
         "Besides, I was hardly tempted by dressmakers, cham-
bermaids, little shop-girls: I wanted fine young ladies.... Yet
it is not in the least any vanity of rank or position that attracts
me: it is a complexion treated with greater care, prettier
hands, more grace in adornment, an air of delicacy and
fastidious cleanliness of person, better taste in their way of
conducting and expressing themselves, a finer, better-made
gown, a daintily shod foot, ribbons, lace, a well-dressed
head...."
         "And why stop at permanent things, when all the
follies that went through my fickle head, fleeting tastes lasting
but a day, a journey, a concert, a supper, a walk to take,
a novel to read, a comedy to see, everything that was in the
slightest degree premeditated in my pleasures or affairs, be-
came, for me, tantamount to violent passions whose ridiculous
                                                         195
     This Business of Living
impetuosity gave me the most acute torment? .•." (L.V,
I732-1736, p. 223).
          " ... this mutual possession (between myself and Mme
de Warens), perhaps unique among human beings, was not
in the least, as I have said, the bond of love, but a more
fundamental kind of possession that, without regard for sen-
sibility, sex, age or features, was bound up with everything
that makes me what I am, and that I cannot lose except by
ceasing to exist •.." (id. p. 225) (and note that Mme de
Warens had already given herself to him).

2nd May
        There are vertical types, who try everything in succes-
sion, passing from one person or one thing to another, drop-
ping each for the next, who resent it if one of their fanner
loves comes back to tempt them while they are devoting them-
selves to someone new. They are romantics, eternally adoles-
cent. On the other hand there are the horizontal types, who
acquire their experience through a wide range of values, all
at the same time, and they know how to grow enthusiastic
about new people and new things without dropping those they
knew previously; who, out of their calm, inner convictions
derive the power to dominate and temper the most varied
infatuations. Such men are classic.

Ioth May
        The banality of totalitarian ideologies reflects the banal-
ity of the humanitarian theories that produced them. Tolstoi,
Ruskin, Gandhi, they have created....

22nd May
        BEGUIN,  L,ame romantique et le reve. (An idea that
will also be found in Schubert, Carns, Schopenhauer and
Jung.)
        The keen inter~t K. P. Moritz takes in childhood rec-
ollections is a method of discovering evidence of a state that
existed prior to life. During infancy it is still fresh in the
memory and leaves traces. It represents escape, not only from
     196
                                                      1941
 contemporaneous reality but from reality as a whole. This is
 the typical aspiration of the proto-romanticists. Hence the
 desire of poets from Shelley to Leopardi to transform them·
selves into natural objects (a cloud, thunder, a wave), thereby
 finding a pretext for participating in a life that is no longer
in human form. Hence their search for dreams, not only as
 an escape from the reality of every day, but as a focus for
prenatal experience. Hence their anxiety to identify them-
selves with "The Everything," which appears to be the same
as pre-natal reality.
         (p. 72.) "Forgetfulness of mankind, also of one's own
weaknesses and doubts, can be found in gaming. Since life,
when one faces it with all the gravity of its questions and its
hopes, is terrible, one must gamble with it. To take a hand
in someone else's game is not enough; we must play so well
that we dupe ourselves; show life that we are capable of
unmasking it, making it our toy, and so proving to ourselves
the sovereignty of our own spirit. The Romantics will call
this virtuosity 'irony,' and ally it to their poetry."
        There are feminine garments so lovely that one could
tear them to shreds.

24th May
        It is curious that Romanticism, which passes for the
discovery and the vindication of the individual, of originality,
of genius, should be completely pervaded by a desire for
unity and cosmic totality; that it should have invented legends
of the fall from primitive Unity and sought for ways (poetry,
love, historical progress, the contemplation of nature, magic,
etc.} to recover it. The proof of this tendency is the creation
of so many collective conceptions (the nation, the people,
Christianity, the Teutonic, the Gothic or the Roman style,
and so on}.

27th May
        By thinking of the artist as a vessel, a receptacle for
inspiration that works by a power of its own, without his
knowledge, the Romanticists discover the unconscious, i.e.,
                                                      197
      This Business of living
a set of positive forces that put man into contact with cosmic
reality. There will come a second generation of Romanticists
who will claim to master this unconscious, experiment with
it and learn all about it, in other words transferring its func~
tioning to the consciousness (Poe-Baudelaire, etc.). Art,
which was at first an ingenuous discovery of symbols of ~
havior, becomes the deliberate creation of aesthetic symbols
 (French Symbolism).
         The term "dream" acquires its second meaning of
"a poetic flight of fancy," "a reverie," from the romanticism
that reveals the autonomy of the imagination and the aut~
sufficiency of the unconscious, which is exactly what we find
in the dreams we have at night.
         Here is a satirical law of life: it is not the giver who
is loved, but the one who takes the gift. The loved one does
not love, for one who loves, gives. And that is understandable,
for giving is a pleasure not so easily forgotten as receiving;
the one to whom we have given becomes necessary to us,
that is, we love him.
         Giving is a passion, almost a vice. We must have some-
one  to whom   we can give.

11th June
       Beguin, II,   152.
         When we look at a lovely color, the dream within us
tends to merge into a more exquisite, more mysterious dream,
seeking not to explain but to understand: "to transform
itself, burst into bloom, become something that really exists
in the heart of an existing lover."
         (Tieck. The conversations of Phantasus, including
the March en.)
         As a poet, Tieck uses free verse, according to his
mood, and if he allows caras rimas it is in order to find ex-
pression in complex sounds. So he creates a whole symbolism
of rhyme and strophic forms.
         Tieck would like a dialogue of different kinds of sound
 (Sternbald) and invents (Fantasie) hearing with the help of
     198
                                                       1941
color-broadly speaking, the substitution of one sense for
another. (Wolsel, Il romanticismo tedesco.)
       It is W ackenroder's idea that music may be a means
to knowledge beyond the reach of words.
        He often comes back to irony. Schubert noted that
dreams are ironic (expressing joy in the guise of sadness and
vice versa) . The poet is a continual obstacle to the spread of
matter-of-factness. Jean-Paul (and Schlegel) say that irony
is a piece of clear reasoning in the midst of a dream or of
anarchist poetry. Tieck says that taking charge when the
unconscious begins to scintillate, assessing it, directing it so
that it has free play, is irony. ( Cf. 22nd May.) Hoffman, that
irony is mixing the commonplaces of life with revelations of a
superior existence.

13th June
       If we can judge by its analogy with the day, old age is
the most tedious time of all because one no longer knows
what to do with oneseH, just as in the evening when the
day's work is finished.

25th June
        Beguin, on Aurelia of G. de Nerval:
        "This explains the apparent chronological inconsist-
ency in the story of Aurelia: in spite of their chance sequence,
the moments of a whole life arrange themselves according to
their joint significance. A sort of timeless memory, like that
of the dream, gives its instant of crisis as a starting point for
a whole destiny, and even the childhood of G. de Nerval,
which brings about a change in perspective, seems subsequent
to the events of riper years and to be colored by them."

The night of 26th June
       A dream that could be a novel. (The central atmos-
phere is dramatic; all t:b.c rest leads up to it, with the mystery
of the plot being revealed little by little. The whole story is
implied.)
                                                        199
      This Business of Living
          I dreamed I was at an inn with a lieutenant. I had
just arrived and was meeting him in connection with a job;
with the lieutenant I saw a sergeant, who, they told me, was
looking for me on the coloners behalf. I tried to avoid him.
There were all sorts of people coming and going. I was going
on at once to Turin. (Or was it Serralunga?) As I went
with him towards the door, I passed through a large under-
ground room where a group of soldiers were all sitting at
little refectory-type tables. I realized there was something
strange and felt a vague fear. One of them told me that they
knew the lieutenant and I loved each other, not as officers;
and we liked them too, so they all asked to be made officers.
 I was terribly afraid that someone present might tell this to
the colonel and I said with a good deal of emphasis that they
 ought to be ashamed to break discipline in this way. I sho.uted
several more phrases in the same vein, that "they all knew
 what we thought of it, the lieutenant and I" and that, if he
 became colonel, I should be in complete agreement. They all
 fell silent, as if frustrated and threatening. (I continued to
 nudge th.e lieutenant, whispering to him to say nothing and
 let me carry on.) The situation developed with me talking,
 and the lieutenant, standing behind me, letting me speak as
 though I were his deputy. I shouted to them to stop, then I
 was taken aback to see, at the far end of the tables, the faces
 of men I knew, who were fraternizing with them. I gave a
 little wink to a soldier sitting near me; he understood and
 winked in reply, but I pretended not to notice. The atmos-
 phere grew more friendly, but still watchful.
           "Have you been fraternizing with my friend?" I asked
  two intellectual looking types at the end of the room, and
 found myself standing between them. I had to get away. I
  do not know how, but I and the lieutenant, who was now
  drinking wine, had left our underwear hanging on the railings
  of his villa, and he advised me to call and collect it. We went
  out, and found a traffic block of buses. Then it was pouring
  with rain and I was alone. I ran to look for my underwear,
  but it was dark and I could not see it. When I got to the
  gate I suddenly knew it was Serralunga and I was with my
      200
                                                      1941
own folk. I jumped on the step and shouted: "I'm Cesare!"
and there was Maria and even some of the neighbors (two
girls, and I notice they are pretty). I think of going to sleep
again, and M. calls out: "There are four apples left."

5th July
       I do not know what to do with women who belong
to other men.

I Ith September
        I have read Cohen's little book about Chretien de
Troyes and reflected once again that narration is not made up
of psychological or even of natural realism, but of a pre-
determined pattern of events, created according to the style
that is reality to the narrator, the one irreplaceable person-.
Cf. Erec's command to Enid that she is not to speak, and
her three failures to obey. Or the caprices of Guinevere, who
compels Lancelot to fight, now in jest, now in real earnest.
Or, again, Landine's rage because Yvain has stayed away
for more than a year, which brings about Yvain's long mar-
tyrdom. Or Perceval's unawareness that he ought to ask the
Fisher King the significance of the procession of the Grail.
        By "style" I mean this development of a chain of facts
that convey psychological and natural realism and maintain
it, but are contrived on purpose, products of the intelligence
and of nothing else. Something like the arbitrary prelude to
a dream that conjures up a whole series of events, coloring
them according to a "passion" that is purposeful but unreal.
        ( Cf. the theory of the symbolic-link (4th December,
'38) and of the stylized situation (1st January, '40). Religion
(I Fioretti), fable (Chretien de Troyes), modern art ( Stend-
hal, Baudelaire, Kafka) all combine to teach me this lesson
-that once I vaguely called the image-story) .

2nd October
        Why does this naturalistic-psychological realism fail to
satisfy you? Because it is too petty. It is not a question of
discovering a new psychological reality, but of multiplying
                                                       201
    This Business of Living
viewpoints that will reveal the riches to be found in the
normal conception of realism. It is a problem of construction.

gth October
        "I like writers who always use the same theme," says
Pintor. Apart from his simple preference for coherence and
definability in the writer-a foothold for criticism-P. does
not explain whether he means the naturalist content or the
stylized treatment. Of course, variation in the former indi-
cates an inner poverty, but the second should of necessity be
an ever new development-from the simple shade of meaning
to the outburst of descriptive style, otherwise the pages will
lack that sense of discovery which is the true and only pleasure
of the writer.

The winter of '4 I-' 42
        A man is never completely alone in the world. At the
worst, he has the company of a boy, a youth, and by and
by a grown man-the one he used to be.
        It is not that, in our time, people are less willing to
listen to a man of culture than, in the past, they listened to
the theologian, the artist, the scientist or the philosopher.
It is that now the masses live on mere propaganda. Even
in the past, the mass of the people lived on propaganda of
a sort, but in those days, since elementary culture was less
widespread, they did not ape truly learned men, and so the
problem of whether or not they agreed with their views did
not arise.
        The setting should not be clearly defined, but live
through the senses of the character-through his thoughts,
his way of speaking. The thing you so dislike--as "impression-
ism"-thus becomes (conditional upon the personage--per-
sonality) life in action. This is the norm you sought for earlier
in your research on M estiere di Poeta. And what else is
Anderson's story-behind-a-story, or the inner monologue of
Joyce, but this same imposition of personage-reality upon
objectivity?
     102
                                                     1942
       When a woman marries she b~longs to another man;
and when she belongs to another man there is nothing more
you can say to her.



1942
28th January
        Things are revealed through the memories we have of
them. Remembering a thing means seeing it-only then-
for the first time. You ought to devise a connection between
the fact that in your moments of greatest truth you are in-
evitably what you were in the past, and the fact that only
things which are remembered are true.

I oth February
         Traveling by train along the seashore near Pineto at
night when the tide is low, watching the little fires in the
distance, the thought came to you that although this scene,
this reality, fills you with ideas you feel you must express,
moves you like a childhood memory, yet it is not really, for
you, either a memory or a constantly recurring fancy. It
fascinates you for trifling reasons-literary or analogical, but
it does not, like a vineyard or one of your own hills, carry
the stamp of your own knowledge of the world. From which
it follows that very many realms of nature (the sea, the moors,
forests and mountains, for instance) are outside your province
because you have not lived among them at the right time. If
you had to embody them in poetry, you would not know how
to move among them with that secret wealth of inner compre-
hension, perception and discrimination which invests a world
with poetic dignity. The same thing applies to the sphere of
human relationships and human beings: only those situations
and those types that, little by little, have taken shape in your
mind, standing out against the background of your initial
awareness, have so far had time to graft themselves upon
                                                       203
      This Business of Living
your spirit and throw out those countless secret rootlets of
reconnaissance that bring blood and life to works of creation.
In brief, you cannot, merely by wanting to, interest yourseH
poetically in a given countryside or a given sphere and make
them live, except by reshaping them in the (inadequate)
molds of your infancy-adolescence. Hence you cannot escape
 (at least for the moment) from a world already implicit in
your natural perception, just as, in practical life, you cannot
escape from the limitations of your natural volition, Hmita-
tions which were largely determined during the period when
you first came to terms with the world. It remains to be seen
whether, in these two fields, the active and the creative, you
should probe and understand more and more deeply the real-
ity already given to you, or whether it would be more profit-
able to confront continually those things, figures, situations, de-
cisions that are extraneous and formless to you, and to draw
from this clash and this effort a continual improvement in
the development and potentiality of your capabilities. The
whole question is whether, once your first consciousness is
formed, you can live spiritually on the income from it, or
whether you can achieve a daily increase in your capital. It
seems evident that, wearisome and fearful though it might be,
the two paths could unite, and a childhood experience elabo-
rated in maturity would be a different and novel starting-point.

12th February
        Modem art-for what it is worth-is a return to in-
fancy. Its perennial theme is the discovery of things, a dis-
covery that can come about, in its purest form, only in the
memory of infancy. That is the effect of the all-pervading
consciousness of the modem artist (the notion of art as an
activity sufficient unto itself, individualism) which makes him
live from sixteen onwards in a state of tension, i.e., a state no
longer propitious to the absorption of new ideas, no longer
open-minded. And in art a thing can be well expressed only
when it has been absorbed with an open mind. All that is
     204
                                                        1942
left for artists to do is to go back and seek inspiration from
the period when they were not yet artists, and that period is
infancy.

21st February
       My stories--in so far as they succeed-are tales by an
onlooker who watches things greater than himseH take place.

23rd February
         This continues 27th April, 1941-reading Rousseau:
         ". . . Seeing through so many prejudices and artificial
passions, one must know how to analyze the human heart in
order to unravel real feelings about nature. A certain delicacy
of tact, which can only be learned by education in high so·
ciety, is needed to feel, if I may speak in -such a way, the
niceties of heart of which this work is full. Without hesitation
I would place its fourth part beside La Princesse de Cleves,
and I say that if these two pieces had been read only in the
provinces, their real worth would never have been felt. • • ."
        ". . • every painful feeling I can imagine only with
effort..•." (and that is why he does not introduce rivalries,
quarrels, jealousy in La Nouvelle Heloise).
        "People believed that I could write by profession like
all other men of letters, whereas I could only write by passion."

26th February
         ( Cf. 4th April, '4 I.) Great modern art is always
ironic, just as ancient art was religious. In the same way that
a sense of the sacred was rooted in visions beyond the world
of reality, giving them backgrounds and antecedents pregnant
with significance, so irony discovers, beneath and within such
visions, a vast field for intellectual sport, a vibrant atmosphere
of imaginative and closely reasoned methods of treatment
that make the things that are represented into symbols of a
more significant reality. To treat a thing ironically it is not
necessary to make a joke of it (just as treating something as
                                                        205
    THis Business of Living
sacred did not mean making it into a liturgy). It is enough
to create imaginative visions according to a standard that
transcends or governs them.
        The same thing is apparent in your own initial ap-
proach to work that has turned out well: you begin with a
discourse broader than the story that is to follow; you view
that story with a certain nonchalance, as though your interest
embraced a wider field than the story will cover; and you
make it your aim to preserve this viewpoint, arranging the
whole story, from the first word, the first comma, in such a
way that there shall be nothing superfluous in respect of the
material play of the facts. It is a matter of avoiding digression
and projecting clear-cut realism on to an enormous imaginary
screen.

24th March
      Alain: Systeme des beaux-arts ( 1926).

       Art
         "The artist • • . controls his images according to what
he does, I mean, according to the object which is born under
his fingers. . . ."
         "The work of art must be made, complete and solid ...
What is not part of the mass cannot be ornament."
         "The model • . . is first of all the object and then the
work."
         "Every time that the idea precedes and dominates the
execution this amounts to industry."
         "The idea comes to the artist afterwards, just as it
does to the spectator, and he is also the spectator of his own
work being born."

        Tragedy
       "Nature's own movements have something mad about
them, above all for the spectator/'
       "[With tragedy] one must always feel the passing of
the hours, and the outside necessity which pushes the passions
     206
                                                       1942
onwards and ripens them before they are ready..•. One might
say that the passions are the matter, and time the form, of
all tragedy."
        "One can try anything in the theater, except showing
beforehand what comes afterwards."
        "The unfolding of the drama in dialogue, and the
passing of time which can always be felt, are assertion enough
that the universe is present."
        "In comedy the danger with what is natural and prob-
able is that one becomes enclosed in them and cannot get
out again."
        Architecture
        "For these carvings on cathedrals do not want to be
seen, or only fleetingly. It is as if they were effaced by the
grand movement of the lines: the mind is asked to find some
other meaning for these things. So, by a higher law, both
imitation and likeness are excluded...."
        "Ornament . . . the sign of the invention and the
winning of each moment, or, if you wish, the sign of those
movements of ideas which accompany research and which
flower out of our sternest thoughts...."
        "It is the nature of style never to result from any rule."
        Sculpture
        "Pure thought is rare and momentary; not momentary
because it is timeless; but always assailed, like a promon-
tory...."
        "The object of sculpture is rather to represent the
really immobile, and finally, instead of giving the appearance
of human movement to marble, to do the opposite and bring
the human form to the immobility of marble."
        Design
        "The line of the drawing is not at all an imitation of
the lines of the object, but rather the trace of a gesture which
takes hold of and explains the form."
        "A good writer never counts upon a single word."
                                                         207
      This Business of Living
         "Only the linking of thought supports prose. • . • The
proper field for prose is thus what is well named analysis."
         "PGetry is subject to the law of time ... so it should
be heard rather than read. • . . True prose should be read
by the eyes."
         "Proofs are not in any sense reasons. . . ."
         "The unified narrative resists analysis by its firm prog~
ress under the law of time."
         "It is the relationship between the dream and action
which defines the novel, with action making the dream con~
sistent, instead of wiping it out" (as in reality).
         "The theme of every novel is the conflict between one
romantic person and the things and the men he finds before
him as he moves forward."
         "The paramount rule of prose, which is to act with
judgment and not with ·words...."
4th May
        In the mental disturbance and effort of writing, what
sustains you is the certainty that on every page there is some~
thing left unsaid.

25th May
       It is not that the child lives in a world of imagination
(as Cantoni says: I Primitivi, p. 256), but that the child
within us survives and starts into life only at rare moments
of recollection, which make us believe, and it is not true,
that in their time they were imaginative.
27th May
      Dear Vittorini,1
1 Elio Vittorini, one of a group of young writers and critics, headed by
Alberto Carocci, responsible for the literary review Solaria, published in
Florence.
        Vittorini reviewed Pavese's early poems very favorably in 1926,
and the two men became friends. Like Pavese, Vittorini was interested
in contemporary American literature, and his very significant work Con~
versazione in Sicilia, published shortly after Pavese's Paesi Tuoi in 1939
was followed by the anthology, Americana ( 1942) to which Pavese
refers here.
        ( Cf. also Pavese's comment on 29th December, 1949). Ed.
     208
                                                       1941
         I feel I owe you this letter because I think it will
 please you to feel that we are all firmly in agreement with
 you. . . . All the value and the significance of L,Americana
depends on your notes.
         During the ten years I have been studying that liter-
ature I have not yet come across a synthesis so accurate and
so illuminating. I want to tell you this, because it is certain
that when your notes become generally known in the wo:dd,
in your Short History of Poetical Culture in America, some-
one is sure to jump up and say that they are highly original,
yes, but fantastic. Now, it should be widely proclaimed that
it is precisely because they form a narrative, a novel if you
like, that they are so illuminating. I leave aside the justice
of the individual criticisms, arrived at by so many intimate and
most informative monographs, and I will speak of the play
of your theme, the drama of corruption, purity, ferocity and
innocence you have established in this history. It is neither
by chance nor by choice that you begin with abstract ravings,
since your Conversation in Sicily had the same (unspoken)
conclusion. In this sense it is a great thing that you have
conveyed the same tension, the same excited cries of dis-
covery, in your poetical history. Consequently, this work is
not concerned with chasing clouds but with a challenging
comparison with world literature (that world literature which
is implicit, in its entirety, in American literature, if I under-
stand you clearly?). The result is that a century and a half
of American literature is reduced to essential evidence of a
legend that we have all lived through and which you now
relate.
        There are naturally a few minor details with which I
disagree (e.g., that The Scarlet Letter is stronger than The
Brothers Karamazov; certain generalizations on Whitman
and Anderson, and so on), but they are not important. The
fact remains that in fifty pages you have written a great
book. I do not wish to flatter you, but for you I feel the same
sense of appreciation that Dante must have had for De V ul-
gari: a literary history seen by a poet as a history of his own
poetical feeling.
                                                       209
    This Business of Living

4th June
        The unitarian composition I am seeking could be the
platonic development of "a discourse within a discourse." In
Pedro, in Convito, and so on, everything said, every situation,
almost every gesture has a realism of its own that combines
with the rest to form a structure, but also has a place and an
importance in a spiritual construction that transcends the
first. Every situation is there for more than one motive: to
form a realistic picture, to develop a line of reasoning, to
symbolize a mental state, to align blocks of spiritual realities
that form another picture in their turn. The technique for
fusing this superstructure with reality, and achieving the at-
mosphere of significant miracle, is constant allusion to the
6£ta. mania and to Socratic ignorance, the insidious reference
to the myths that represent in Plato's world of ideas what
memories are to you, your roots in the past that give sap
and life to the abstract sensations you are writing about in
the present (for memories cf. 28th January and 10th Feb-
ruary '42) . By Platonic mania I also mean the dialectic
insistence on exhaustive analyses that are the voice of that
ignorance.

ISt July                                     At Santo Stefano
When the moon                                When the moon
is old:                                      is new:
                   Sowing flowers
                   They come
Beautiful and
With thick stems               I
                   Cutting down trees,
                                             Sickly and
                                             slim and elegant

                   they will be
Healthy
                               I
                   Except the pine tree
                                             Worm-eaten


                   which will be
    210
                                                          1942

Worm-eaten                                     Healthy

                    Washing the sheets
                    with ashes
                    will make them
Clean and good
                                I
                    Pruning the vine
                                               dirty-the ashes
                                               will filter through

                    and the buds
                    will be
Harmful                                        Fruitful

lOth July
        " ... order, composition, of whatever kind it may be,
is an assessment of proportions, of analogies. Fantasy, on the
other hand, is free of all calculation, of all laws, however cir-
cumspect or hidden, or pretends to free itself from them. For
this reason composition is of no importance in the novels of
Giraudoux. . . ." (D. Mornet, Introduction a l'Etude des
Ecrivains Francais d' au jourd'hui.)
        I, in fact, have stated the contrary (preface to David
Cop Jlerfield: "fantasy, which is pure construction"). This
man Mornet distinguishes and classifies as a French pedant
would do. Fantasy is not the opposite of intelligence. Fantasy
is intelligence brought to establishing relationships of analogy,
of significant implication, of symbolism. I have said that only
fantasy can construct, because only fantasy can escape the
tyranny of a real slice of life, of a natural occurrence, and
replace the laws of reality (which is absence of construction,
so much so that it has no beginning and no end) with fairy
tales, stories and myths, which are constructions of intelligence.
         Mornet applies the term "fantasy" to "reverie," which
-except for pathological cases--is .also an instinctive effort
of intellectual construction.

2nd August
       The unspeakable boredom it gives you to read travel
pages in journals! The new, exotic surroundings that have
                                                          21f
    This Business of Living
surprised the writer! It stems, without any doubt, from the
lack of roots that these impressions have, that they have, as
it were, come out of nothing, from the outside world, un-
burdened by a past. They appeal to the writer as something
amazing, but real amazement comes from the memory, not
from novelty.

7th August
        From the beginning I have been accustomed to think
of· my poetry as an illusion, a psychological blockade, so true
is it that my richest style is the synthetic voice of the leading
character, and that my formula is "to see how such and such
a person would extricate himself from a given situation." This
not only in my prose but even in my verse. It is quite different
for Vittorini, who, ignoring the leading character with all the
calm dignity of a Dante, can make a symbol of him without
any effort.

14th August
       In the little train I was thinking that the fields I saw
speeding past, the tree-curtains, the houses, the little out-of-
the-way corners, the reminders of former days, all would
have served to make a memory, a past. Though the hour was
commonplace and, in truth, boring, to find it again one day
would no longer have been boring.

17th August
        It happens that a conversation overheard makes us
pause, interests and touches us more deeply than words ad-
dressed to us.

20th August
        They say that to create while actually writing is to
reach out beyond whatever plan we have made; searching,
listening to the deep truth within us. But often the profoundest
truth we have is the plan we have created by slow, ruthless,
weary effort and surrender.
     212
                                                      1942

22nd August (At Pavone)
       The things I once saw for the first time, in a past that
has gone forever. If seeing them for the first time was enough
to content me (amazement, ecstasies of imagination) seeing
them again should bring another significance. What?

25th August (At Pavone)
         When you tell little anecdotes or events you always get
tied up and cannot choose: you want to say everything. A
lack of confidence in art, hoping that by accumulating every
little detail you will succeed in finding the good one that will
make the point.
         Your worst enemy is your belief in a happy, pre-
historic time, a Garden of Eden, a golden age; and a belief
that everything essential has already been said by the first
thinkers. The two things are one.

3oth August (At Gressoney)
      Love is desire for knowledge.

31st August (At Gressoney)
        As a child one learns to know the world not-as it
would seem-by immediate initial contact with things, but
through signs of things: words, pictures, stories. If anything
in the world inspires a moment of ecstatic emotion, we find
that we are moved because we were previously moved by it;
and we were moved because, on some day or other, it seemed
to us transfigured, detached from everything else, by a word,
a fable, a fancy that we connect with it. Naturally at that
time the fancy strikes us as reality, as objective knowledge, not
as an invention. (Since the idea that infancy is poetic is only
an adult conception, cf. 25th May.)

4th September (At Gressoney)
       We want to produce a work that from the start will
amaze even ourselves.
                                                        213
    This Business of Living

6th September
       There comes a day when, for someone who has perse-
cuted us, we feel only indifference, a weariness at his stupidity.
Then we forgive him.

Ioth September
        It is only by following instinct, the initial, spontaneous
way of living, that one can feel justified, at peace with one-
self and with one's own standard. But what of the man whose
instinct pulls him in two different directions, so that he is
always at odds with himself?

12th September
        A man alone in a hut, eating the grease and gravy
from a cooking pot. Some days he scrapes it with an old
knife, on other days with his nails; there was a time when
the pot was full, the food good; now it is stale, and to get the
taste of it the man gnaws his broken nails. He will do the
same tomorrow and the next day.
        Like me, searching for work in my heart.

I 7th September
        The chapter on responsibility and personality in Cesare
Luporini's Situazione e liberta nell,esistenza has sorted out
your thoughts on "the moment of ecstasy" and "continuous
unity" (the symbol and the natural state), cf. 27th August,
'39; 22nd, 24th and 27th February, '40. The new thing, today,
is that the ecstatic moment corresponds to the symbol, which
should thus mean perfect liberty.
        We live in a world of things, facts, deeds, which is the
temporal world. Our c-easeless, unconscious effort is to reach
out beyond time towards the ecstatic moment when our liberty
will be realized. What happens is that things, facts, deeds, the
passing of time, all promise us such moments, clothe them,
make them alive. They become symbols of our liberty. Each
of us has a wealth of things, facts and deeds that are the
     214
                                                        1942
symbols of his happiness; not that they have value in them-
selves by their very nature, but that they invite us, appeal to
us; they are symbols. Time enriches this world of signs amaz-
ingly, in that it creates a play of perspective that multiplies
the more-than-temporal significance of these symbols.
        Which is as good as saying that there are no such
things as negative symbols, pessimistic or even merely com-
monplace: the symbol is always synonymous with a moment
of ecstasy, affirmation, a focal point.
        So now you can be happy! (As you understood on the
6th November, '43·)

26th September
        The theme in Greek tragedy is: what should be, must
be. Hence the wonderland of gods who bring about what-
ever they wish; the rules of magic, taboos, destiny that must
be observed; the final catharsis which is the acceptance of
what must be.
        (Does not the same thing happen in the five acts of
Shakespeare? And in O'Neill, what must be is ordained by
the natural laws of life?) The poetry of the Greeks is that
this destiny, these taboos, these rules seem arbitrary, con-
trived, magical-perhaps symbolic.
        There is no such thing as "seeing a thing for the first
time." What we remember, what we notice, is always a
second time. (I said the same thing on 28th Janua.rf; 22nd
August is illusory; gxst August is conclusive.)

27th September
        In Greek tragedy the characters never talk to one
another, they talk to confidants, to the chorus, to strangers.
It is a method of presentation in which each one states his
own case to the public. The character never descends to a
dialogue with others, but is as he is, statuesque, immutable.
        Murders take place off the stage and we hear the
shouts, the exhortations, the words. Then the messenger ap-
pears and tells us the facts; the event resolves itself into words,
                                                         215
     This Business of Living
a speech, not a dialogue. The tragedy itself is not a dialogue
but an explanation to an idealized public, the chorus, with
whom the real dialogue takes place.
         (Hence the poverty of classical tragedy [French, or in
Alfieri] which preserves the style, the absence of action and
the exposition in the Greek manner, but lacks the chorus, that
is the second personage which is the sum of all the other
characters.)

I 8th October
        Ill Aeschylus, the protagonist is motionless, statuesque,
facing the chorus, and all the episodes take place around him_
 (The Suppliants~ Prometheus, Persians, Seven Against
Thebes) This is probably the basic situation. It reappears in
Sophocles (Oedipus Coloneus) and in Euripides ( Troades,
Hecuba).
        The hubris is knowing the decree of the oracle and
taking no account of it. But the hubris itself is also fate
 (oracle) : what must be will be, as the chorus proclaims.
That is why the chorus is forever conversing with the pro-
tagonists.

gxst October
         All these farces, tricks, witty inventions, which, in
tragedy, appear as ambushes, revenges, enterprises, are the
form in which is manifested the real psychology of the char-
acters, but they go beyond it, surround and sustain it by a
stylization that is haH social, haH mythological. In short, wit
is not psychology, it is style.

5th November
         Confessions by Kierkegaard which describe the man
of letters, the pure intellectual: "my interests are not all sub-
ordinate to a single interest, but are all co-ordinated," and
"what I lacked was the fact of not having led a perfect human
life, following as I did only the road of knowledge." These
were thoughts that I had last night as I talked about G. with
     216
                                                      1943
the Romano woman, and which I found again this morning
in Przywara ( Das Geheimnis Kierkegaards, pages I I and I 2).
The usual coincidence.
        Before Romanticism, the intellectual did not exist, be-
cause there was no line of demarcation between life and
learning. (I have already noted this once.) To perceive that
life is more important than thought, means being a learned
man, an intellectual; it means that his own thought has not
become life.




1943
grd February
       The trouble is not the harshness of Fate, for anything
we want strongly enough we get. The trouble is rather that
when we have it we grow sick of it, and then we should
never blame Fate, only our own desire.

gth-Ioth February
        Leon Chestov, Kierkegaard et la philosophie existante
(Vox Clamantis in deserto). Les amis de Leon Chestov. 1936.
       p. 3 7 : "The origin of philosophy does not lie in aston-
ishment, as Plato and Aristotle taught, but in despair.,
       p. 4-2 : (Socrates) "The 'best' comes first. The 'best'
ought to rule the world. But in this case, before admiring
reason one must first make enquiries: does it really assure
man of what is best?,
       p. I 02 : "Only the knight of the faith is happy: he
reigns over the finite, while the knight of resignation is only
a passerby here, a stranger, ( Kierkegaard) .
       p. I 40: "Mysticism lives in peace with reason and
human knowledge, and since the reward that it promises men
supposes nothing else, it excludes any supernatural interven-
tion. Everything happens naturally; one obtains everything
with one's own strength."
                                                       217
      This Business of Living
         p. 148: "It was not that Adam was ignorant of the
 difference between good and evil, but that this difference
 did not exist/~
         p. 20 I : "God, like the apostles, possesses no power; he
only possesses authority: He can only threaten, demand, or
 at most, mdt the heart."
         p. 207: (Dostoevsky) "I assert that the awareness of
our powerlessness to help or to bring the slightest relief to
suffering humanity, even though we are deeply convinced of
this suffering, can in our hearts change love of humanity into
hatred for humanity."
         p. 2 I 7: "Jesus taught men, then, to raise themselves
above the finite, exactly as the ancients taught and modem
sages still teach."
         p. 222: "K.ierkegaard denied faith in order to acquire
knowledge: he repeated the act already committed by our
ancestor, and the result was what was to be expected least-
impotence."
         p. 228-229: The life of Christ is an unfortunate love
affair, if Necessity rules. He could weep, and do no more.
         p. 230: "The task before Christianity is to realize
'ethics' on earth."
         Where, then, is it different from the wisdom of the
ancient Greeks? In its "diabolical pride" (Pascal quoting
Epictetus).
         p. 240: "And he ( K.ierkegaard) was obliged to con-
sider the healing of the sick man not a miraculous victory
over impotence-impotence cannot be beaten-but only the
love and mercifplness of the apostle."
         p. 288: Kierkegaard allowed himself to believe that
"the Creator of the earth and the sky was as depressed, as
miserable as he, Kierkegaard. It was at this moment that
existential philosophy came into being."
         p. 307 : "the reasonable consciousness can not tolerate
what madness and death say to it."
         p. 323: "For if a choice has to be made between good
and evil, this means that freedom has already been lost: evil
has entered the world and taken its place beside the divine
     218
                                                       1943
 valde bonum/, The infinitely greater and qualitatively differ-
 ent freedom enjoyed by man "consists not in choosing be-
 tween god and evil, but in ridding the world of evil. Man
 can have no relationship with evil: while evil exists there is
 no liberty, and everything that men have so far called justice
 is nothing but falsehood and trickery. Freedom does not
 choose between good and evil: it destroys evil."
         p. 325: "Ignorance is not something negative, an ab-
sence, a lack, just as freedom is not a want and a negation,
 but an affirmation of an immense value. Innocence does not
 seek knowledge, since it is above it (I again recall the "flight
 over consciousness" of Plotinus) just as the will of Him
 who created man in His image is above knowledge."
         p. 328-g: "And in effect, if freedom is freedom to
choose between good and evil, then this freedom ought also
 to be inherent in the Creator in as much as He is the free
Being par excellence. Consequently, it would be quite possible
to admit that, having this choice between good and evil, the
Creator might have chosen evil. This problem was a real
crux interpretum for the philosophical thought of the middle
ages. The idea that freedom was freedom to choose between
good and evil could not then be abandoned: the middle
ages, enthralled by Greek speculative thought, never man-
aged to distinguish between the religious and ethical points of
view (and did not dare to make this distinction) . On the
other hand it could not be admitted that God 'had the right'
to prefer evil to good."
         (John Duns Scotus) "God is the arbitrary: He is
dominated by no principle and no law. What He accepts
is the good. What He rejects is evil." (Eutiphrones.)
         p. 332 : "Before God every necessity uncovers its real
essence and reveals itself as a void lacking all content."
         p. 342 : "for in the last analysis truth has to resort to
torture, to violence. God ... restrains nobody."
         p. 343: "Kierkegaard was forced to the monstrous con-
clusion that the love of God is dependant on His immutability,
that God is tied and cannot move, that God, exactly like our-
selves, has 'a thorn in his flesh'; in other words those torments
                                                        219
      This Business of Living
with which truth crushes men are there for God also. All this
had to be if Kierkegaard was to dare to oppose speculative
philosophy with existential philosophy, for him to have courage
enough to ask himself how it was that truth had managed to
dominate God, and to perceive in this monstrous rational
construction what it asserts in reality-the fall of man and
original sin."
         p. 345: "All theodicy, which means the 'justification
of God,' is based on the fact that God can not be master of the
truths which He did not create. So theodicy does not so much
justify God as evil."
         p. 356: "And salvation consists neither of the knowl-
edge that everything that happens is inevitable, nor of the
virtue which has seen what is inevitable and submits to it of
its own accord; salvation is faith in God, to whom all things
are possible, who created all things of his own free will and
compared to whom everything uncreated is only a miserable
empty Void. There lies the true meaning of the Absurd. . . ."
         p. 359 : "God means that everything is possible. God
 means that the learning for which our reason is so avid, pulling
us irresistably towards it, does not exist. God means that evil
does not exist either: only the original fiat and the paradisal
 valde bonum exist, and in the face of these all our truths based
 on the principle of non:·contradiction, on the principle of suffi-
 cient reason, and many other laws, fade away and change into
 fan toms."
         p. 362: (St. Peter Damiani. Tertullian) "God deter-
 mines just as arbitrarily, without considering the laws of
 thought or of being, what is true.n
         p. 372: "'Compulsion' is evidence not for, but against
 the truth of any judgement and all 'necessities' can and must
 be resolved in freedom."
          p. 376: "It was by the divine will that man fell before
 temptation and lost his freedom. And this same divine wil1-i~
 the face of which, petrified immutability collapsed when it
 tried to offer resistance-will give man back his freedom and
 has already done so. That is the sense of the Bible's reve-
 lation."
      220
                                                      1943
        p. 379: "The promised land is wherever the man of
faith has come; it offers its promise just because he is already
there; certum est quia impossibile.''

I gth February
         Ideally, the theatre has to do, not with action, but
with acting. I mean an impartial, well-balanced presentation,
not "veracity." The Greeks, in fact, made everything happen
off-stage, and the "action" became words on the lips of the
messenger. Anything that happens on the stage is not "theatre"
but histrionics. Look at the absence of scenery in the great
days of the Greeks and Shakespeare. That is why one dislikes
realistic presentations, why stage directions always seem ab-
surd. The setting may please one as a pictorial effect, but that
is "spectacle," not "theatre." It is a step towards the tech-
nique of the cinema, which concentrates on telling a story,
not on dialogue.

2nd April (At Rome)
        The words they shall speak will be stereotyped, their
movements like a dance. The story must not proceed accord-
ing to a naturalistic sequence of events, but through abrupt
changes, platonically construed. Everything should be pre-
pared in advance, like granite blocks previously cut and ready
to be placed here and there at will, not built up to a climax
and described in the style of a running commentary.
        Whatever evil may occur, do we deserve any better?
I am still happy to be alive.
        Presumptuous language.
        The various episodes are not introduced by natural
accidents, as in a diary, but, so long as the inner continuity
remains constant and breath-taking, they are mutations in-
dicating a manifold reality, placed above and outside time.

25th April
        Provincialism in art means only moral timidity.
        When the "word-fable-fantasy'' of 3 I st August, '42
links up with reality, a memory is created: here is the symbol!
                                                       nt
     This Business of Living

129th April
      When I arrive in a fresh place, a new locality with
different natural surroundings, different customs, houses,
faces, I notice many things that, if I had always lived there,
would now be childhood memories. That is what gives me
the feeling, as I walk about, that I am disturbing and in-
truding upon other men's dreams.

2nd May
        Out of the depths of bitter humiliation men utter two
cries: either "We shall see, 0 World!" or "Don't you know
that I love you?"

13th May
      To write badly means employing words and phrases that
do not ring true. Balbo and Petitjean do not write badly, but
disjointedly.

3rd June
         A rustic composition, peopled not by country folk or
peasants but by girls with a sunshade. The Roman ruins
please you because the reeds and poppies, the dry hedges on
the hills, somehow link them with your childhood; also be-
cause history (Ancient Rome) and pre-history (Vico: blood
sprinkled on the hedgerow or in the furrow) are in harmony
with this rusticity, making it a world in itself, consistent from
birth to death.
         Your classical knowledge stems from the Georgics,
D' Annunzio and the hill of Pino. To that background you
added America, because its language is rustic-universal (An-
derson, An Ohio Pagan) and because it is the place (The
Field of Corn) where town and country meet. Yours is a
rustic-classicism that could easily become prehistoric ethnog-
raphy.

15th June
        Going back to what I wrote on 23rd August, 1942, I
believe that infancy is not important as a natural phenomenon,
     m
                                                           1943
but only as a time for christening things, a time which teaches
us to be moved by the sight of the things we have christened.
One can christen things at any age, provided one. is innocent
enough to believe that such a transfiguration is, in fact, ob-
jective knowledge. This is why only a child can usually do
it. Herein lies the spontaneity not of a poem, which is only
a little tale, but of the prepoetic stage, which provides the
necessary material for the poem. This is the spontaneity of
inspiration, which is a completely different thing from com-
posing poetry (cf. 10th February, 1942.)

goth June
        Among the roots of your classicism you must include
your passion for the stars, which began as a love of beautiful
names, inspired suddenly, marvelously, by your first classics
lectures (on the Georgics) u Ante tibi Atlantides abscondantur
•.."and by D'Annunzio (Maja).
        This living voluptuously you talked about on 2oth
April, '36 has now moved out of the realm of emotional sin-
cerity to that of professional research on memories. Stop it
and act.

2nd July
        Mter my dream of June 22 1 I had another typical
dream last night. At the end of a performance given by my-
self alone in an enormous theatre, and greatly applauded, the
maid brought to my dressing room a potted plant and a
letter. Who had sent it? My mind was a blank, though I knew
the handwriting. The tone of the letter was bittersweet.
        This was a typical dream of total discovery, like the
reading of a novel. My surprise was entirely genuine. If I
did not know who had sent me the flowers and, in reading
the note, felt both surprised and afraid, how could I be the
same person who was imagining the plot of the dream?
        And yet, the shape of the flowers in the pot, the tone
1There is no trace of this dream in the manuscript. Other previous
dreams were described in penciled notes upon separate pieces of paper.
Ed.

                                                            223
     This Business of Living
of the letter and the handwriting are events which have
occurred in these last few days. The maid I remembered from
an old film I had seen. Could it not be that, as the seconds
passed, one memory superimposed itseH on another and, in
this case, I was receiving the flowers because I have read and
seen innumerable times that flowers are brought to one's
dressing room? But this cannot be explained: that at that
moment I was a thousand miles away from Fern. And yet
the letter came from her; as a matter of fact, she was in the
theatre and I had not known it until that instant.

4th July
        Not only for their lovely names. Above all else, the
stars were rustic-mythological complex bodies that fostered
your interest in the prehistoric. Even more than poetry (the
Iliad, the Divina Commedia, Leopardi) you enjoyed geology
and astronomy, studies which may sound dull but which
inspired in you a taste for rustic mythology. This growing
enthusiasm, nourished by certain all-too-rare but exciting and
suggestive indications you found in poetry ( esperos o callistos
en urano istasi aster) led you to literature, to an appreciation
of words as a medium, acquired first by tedious cultural
studies ("required reading" ) , then by your discovery of
Baudelaire.

1oth July
        Between sixteen and nineteen you thought it extraor-
dinary that reality (which to you meant such things as the
little path from Reaglie by starlight, or the woods of strong
ash trees for making boats) , was the very thing Homer or
D' Annunzio passed over in silence. At first there was the
emotion inspired by the signs of things (poems, fables,
legends), then you came to recognize the beauty and interest
of the world of things themselves. Though you were still
looking at literature from the outside, your love of astronomy
and the effect of such moving experiences as Flammarion, and
the film on Dante, confirmed your interest in some realities.
        Turin-and the armistice; then-Serralunga.
     U4
                                                                1943

I Ith September
        The characteristic thing, I do not say of poetry but of
fable, or the myth, is the consecration of individual places
that are connected with a fact, an action, an event, isolating
that particular spot and giving it an absolute significance.
For every man, places he knew as a child come back to him
consecrated in the same way; the things that took place there
make them unique, mark them off from the rest of the world
as being legendary, though not as yet poetic. This individuality,
this uniqueness ascribed to a place is part of that broader,
general assumption that an action or fact is unique, absolute
and therefore symbolic, which is characteristic of a myth.
 (It is quite unrealistic to regard a place in that way simply
because something happens there now and then, and seems
significant because it recurs.) In reality no action, no place,
is more important than another, but in a myth such matters
have a hierarchy of their own. This is why many people shun
natural realism and, instead, devise a myth, reverting to their
childhood.

I 5th September
      , With any writer, one can apply the tl!rm "mythical"
to that central image, quite unmistakable, which moves 4im
most fiercely and to which he always turns. In Dostoievsky,
it is a man sinking himself to the level of the madness; in
Stendhal, the isolation of prison life, and so on. Such an
image is mythical in so far as the writer turns to it as some-
thing unique that symbolizes all his experience.
        I was on a train, desperate and watchfuP

I7th September
       A level stretch of green turf surrounded by hills and
ranks of trees with broad glades between, seen on a September
morning when wisps of haze cut it off from the world, appeals
to you as the sort of place that in the past might have been
1   T             .          sad but curious,
        he manuscript reads: d esperat e an d wa t chfu1. Ed.

                                                                ns
     This Business of Living
considered sacred. Imagine those glades strewn with flowers,
the festivals, the sacrifices where mystery beckons and threatens
from the wooded shadows. There, between the tree-trunks
and the sky, the god of that place might appear. The
mythological spot is not one particular unique place, a shrine
or something similar (this is a correction of I I th September),
but a universal common denmninator, a glade, a wood, a
grotto, a seashore, which by its very vagueness evokes all
glades, all woods, all grottoes, all seashores. H they are still
further enriched by personal memories they can become
material for poetry, a very different thing from their original
significance as a myth. In short, what makes them "unique"
is their power of evoking transcendental images. Could these
feelings be our religious emotions?

goth September
         Milton, in his use of fantasy, is still Elizabethan in
spirit; in his imag<:ry he.mingles the world of fables, memory
and nature with reality in such a way as to transpose the
whole to a different sphere; he even has a sense (,cf. the
importance music has for him in L'Allegro, Il Penseroso and
Comus) of the first intangible indications foreshadowing
romanticism, but he has lost all appreciation of idiom, of
dialect, of lusty speech. That is why he "forgets himseH to
marble," instead of savoring flesh and blood, the sweat of
life.

1st October
        The pre-Shakespearians (Peele, Greene) had no con-
ception of imagination (in the sense I discussed on 28th May,
'40), but by constructing their plays upon a mixture of
buffoonery and serious, imaginative speeches they prepared
the way for imaginative drama.
        When Lily, Marlowe, Shakespeare and the rest not
only mingled boisterous wit with serious passages but gave an
interpretation to the whole, then narrative imagery came to
life. Wit, of course, is style, not psychology ( cf. 31st October,
     226
                                                      1943
'42), which means that characters use wit not to express
their own individuality (that is revealed by their actions and
their thoughts) but because it is natural to their world. Wit
is an air, a song, not a serious analysis; a game of fancy
pervading all men's conversation and so must be regarded as
imagination, not as truth.

4th October
         We only admire those landscapes that we have already
admired. Image by image we find our way back to a picture,
an exclamation, a sign with which others chose them and
pointed them out to us (See 1oth February and gzst August,
 1942). Of course a moment comes when, having become
wise through habit, we too can choose our landscapes as if
they bore the mark of someone else's approval. So the law
is not violated.
        To admire, in other words to enjoy as a visual form,
is in fact to see as a sign. This is why the beginning of admira-
tion is always focused upon a sign which cannot as yet have
been created by us.
         This is why our very own landscapes are few ( I oth
February, I 942). It is difficult for us to add new ones to those
revealed to us thanks to accidental signs during our infancy
when our imaginations are being formed.
         You do not understand the craze so many people have
to break away from the bourgeois mentality. Talking of
poetry, you already feel more or less on equal terms with the
ordinary man in the street. Appearances and actions are to be
judged by elementary indications, before culture comes into it.

5th October
        The last hundred years have ended the betrayal of
dialect by discovering it, and giving it a place beside literary
language. .So dialect has finally lost the all.pervadingness it
once had, underlying all literary efforts in Italian; a quality
it began to lose during the centuries {'6oo and '7oo) of
academic restraint. Great poetry grew from a field where
                                                       227
      This Business of Living
literary language and dialect were mingled indiscriminately
-the vulgar tongue. Certainly one reverts to the forcefulness
of dialect when seeking "rhetorical dignity," but that in no
 way conflicts with the mother tongue. Italy and England have
had great poets because there the first attempts at poetry
were made before the language was definitely formed. In
France, no, because, for various reasons, ambitious poets
began writing after the language was clearly defined ( '6oo).
Here is the reason for the power of American writers now,
and of the Russians in the nineteenth century. The first ~ad
the good fortune of a language enriched by a fresh efferves-
cence, a new blossoming in a new society-a dialect; the
second had their own reasons of conscience for ignoring
literary language, and made do with the more popular tongue.
         As in everything to do with poetry, there is in this, too,
the question of a certain balance. Poets of the great periods
did not, of course, write in dialect. They used the language
of the people, uplifting it with all sorts of rhetorical devices
 and poetical turns of phrase. With them the transition from
dialect to literary language was made in the name of poetry,
 directly due to the way l:hey used and increased the vivacity
of dialect. On the other hand, when a literary language
already exists, men no longer feel the need for this lighter
effect because it seems that this language has dignity, and
then it's "Goodnight!".
         But, after all, what's done is done. Nowadays dialect
is distinct from language and we cannot go back to it unless
we pose as lovers of folk-lore. The problem is to find a new
vivacity (or naturalness, as Leopardi would say).

7th October
        Henry VI is one of the richest and most full of nar-
rative of all Shakespeare's works. The triple construction of it
lessens the theatrical quality and increases the narrative. It is
many-colored: the wars in France with incidental adventures
(the Duchess of Auvergne, the Pucelle) ; the intrigues and
     228
                                                      1943
factions at home, the tumults ( Cade) ; fierce fighting, high
treason (and low), escapes (the Scottish forest) • There are
the three parts. Is it possible that this was his first play? It
already has all Shakespeare's command of tragic language,
with well-judged transitions from high-flown rhetoric to the
salacious humor of the common people. Here wit is specially
devised to cast an imaginative light upon the narration. There
are innumerable extremely vivid descriptions of actions and
events where this wit reigns supreme. It is worth noting that
already Shakespeare excelled in the use of wit in repartee,
as a fanciful embroidery to the dialogue. Here, descriptive,
informative witticisms take the place of dialogue. His com-
edies of the same period are already pure theatre, while this
chronicle is entirely a record of events.
        Each of the three parts has its own hero: Talbot, a
brave, simple soldier; York, the clever, persevering heir to
the throne; and Warwick, soldier, hero and politician. But
what matters most is the swarm of characters, their multi-
plicity and profusion; presenting not the psychological truth
about individuals but the vital world around them, with all
its atmosphere and imagination (the sea, men's occupations,
nature, wild animals) .

8th October
        Love's Labor's Lost is the most delightful of his youth-
ful comedies. Possibly his first? A wild medley of talk, blows,
counter-blows, wit, flights of fancy, tirades and fresh starts.
One cannot see how the characters even have time to laugh.
It takes your breath away. It is conceived as a true, supreme
display of wit.
        When you dream, you are an author, but you do not
know how it will end.

gth October
       The other youthful comedies (Two Gentlemen of
Verona and The Comedy of Errors) are full of serious pas-
                                                       n9
     This Business of Living
sages. Shakespeare's prose has not yet reached his new comico-
tragic language, images conveyed by dialogue as in his
tragedies (Henry VI, Richard III and Titus Andronicus).
He has not yet gone beyond conveying images by means of
descriptions. It is only after progressive efforts with imagina-
tive verse (A Midsummer Night's Dream, The Merchant of
V e11-ice), dialectic prose (Much Ado About Nothing, As You
Like It, Twelfth Night), delicate, psychological narrative
 (Romeo and juliet, King john, Henry IV, Henry V, Timon
of Athens) that he reaches the comico-tragic language of his
maturity, equally powerful in comedy and tragedy, truly
theatrical, with images conveyed by dialogue, in place of
descriptions. A typical imaginative dialogue:
        Perdita: . . . to make you garlands of; and my sweet
                  friend, to strew him o'er and o'er!
        Florizel: What, like a corse?
        Perdita: No, like a bank for love to lie and play on;
                  not like a corse; or if, not to be buried,
                  but quick and in mine arms. . . . •
                  (The Winter's Tale, Act IV, Sc. 4).
         Without question, Shakespeare has, even in his earliest
 works, occasional passages of finished style and imaginative
 dialogue. But he has not yet fused this style with the situa-
 tions; it triumphs in occasional scenic discoveries, almost al-
 ways farcical or lyrical, but the whole conception of his work
is not yet ironical, i.e., conscious of a double or treble reality
to be expressed in two or three shades of meaning fused
together-the imaginative (lyrical passages) ; dialectic (comic
interludes) and the tragic (insight into the depths of the
human soul) . Fused together, that is the important thing,
into one line or a single word. His irony, as is to be expected,
reveals itself first in his comedies-A Midsummer Night's
Dream, As You Like It-but with julius Caesar it pervades
even tragedy. In fact, in julius Caesar his style is sure and
strong.
     230
                                                      1943

I oth October
         If The True Tragedy of Richard, Duke of York is by
Marlowe, Peele and Greene with a little of Shakespeare, as
is probable, one understands where Shakespeare learned his
first tragic style, as in Henry VI. Working with them, he
inherited the construction and the tone of the play. By him-
self, in the third part of Henry VI, he introduced more
fluency, gave more plausibility to the transitions, gave the
whole more imaginative fullness. (The sections he added all
clarify the transitions, enrich and bring to life the cold, stiff
imagery, or give fresh animation to the settings, e.g. the
hunters in the forest). He still lacks irony, but that he will
invent for himself, deriving it from his comedy.
         Marlowe got as far as making a character talk in dia-
lect (Ithnamore in The jew; the various clowns in Faustus),
but not to the stage of introducing exchanges of wit. In fact,
his dialogue has no irony.
         Obviously Marlowe, except in Tamerlane and Edward
II, was writing hurriedly, for the scene between Ithnamore,
the courtesan and the ruffian in Act IV could have been
worked up into a strong scene of scurrilous dialogue that
would have anticipated Ben Jonson, and has, in any case,
plenty of blasphemous witticisms. Here is where he falls short
of Shakespeare, who would have interlarded the scene with
flashes of wit, all unexpected and all carefully devised ( cf.
Henry IV, where the scene with Falstaff in The Boar's Head
is studied from life).
         Dialect and lyrical writing are never mixed by any
pre-Shakespearian. Except Lily, who, however, has no irony.
Apart from his dry, scholarly references to mythology, Mar-
lowe has nothing imaginative. His stand-by is straightforward,
passionate expression ( cf. the lines declaimed over Gaveston),
though occasionally his descriptions are vivid and true. His
pagan desires for power, wealth and sex are stated with utter
frankness; he is energy at full stretch, but he is not a poet.
                                                        231
     This Business of Living
        His Edward II is not so much a "chronicle play" as
the delicate drama of "a brain-aired king, wanton and
frolicky," wretched in his misfortune. The lords have no epic
grandeur, and-a strange thing-there are no battles.

I 2th October
         Creative power of a dream. A radio and a woman, or
a naked woman functioning as a radio, or what have you;
young G. called her a "Radio-peliga." [Italian play of words
centered on "pelo," which describes the hair of the body,
not of the head.] I laughed, greatly enjoying the expression
and the image of hair. The word struck me as a magnificent
one for cunt. The mystery is, where did this conviction derive
from? As my dream became lighter it seemed to fade away,
and I found it progressively harder to remember the word,
which I could only recall by thinking of pellex-pellicis.
         Is it not strange, this philological analysis performed
during one's sleep? And how odd this conviction of the great
power of expression of one word, which I had never heard
before. Could there be, I wonder, a lexicon of invention in
the language of dreams, on the lines of Finnegan?
         Those birds flying away along the corridors amidst the
greenery-! know them so well.
         That in narrating one should not describe beautiful
landscapes is clear from what I wrote on October 4th, when
I stated that the landscapes one enjoys are seen as signs. The
normal character, therefore, not being a fashioner of signs,
should not en joy them, at least not until the writer has finished
filtering the surroundings through the character. This is the
only decent way of telling a story. But this treatment should not
be used in the case of the character's own signs, learnt in his
infancy, in the case of his own myth, of that inner life which
he, too, can and should have ( I 7th September, I 942, II).
         But in this case as well one should present without
describing: for instance, the character's beautiful girl, though
she is one of his myths, must not be described as beautiful,
but presented.
     232
                                                      1943

14th October
         Titus Andronicus has much that is doubtful; some
scenes lack imagination, but certain passages are wonderfully
rich; the contrast, in Act II, between fresh, joyous nature and
a hotbed of crime (this scene is pure Shakespeare) ; and
Act III, despair and malediction. The second scene in Act IV,
about the little Moorish prince, has a savage humor, but still
lacks irony. The rest, Acts I and V, are colorless and the
style is poor. Aaron is a villain who foreshadows !ago and the
rest, but he is also reminiscent of Marlowe's Barrabas. When
the play reaches any heights of style it equals the best in
Henry IV and even surpasses it in its sense of the global scene.

 I 6th October
        Reading Every Man in His Humor, I observed that,
while other Elizabethan dramatists draw their comic elements
from events (farces, fisticuffs, buffoonery), Shakespeare de-
rives his chiefly from words (witticisms, repartee, puns and
so on).

Igth October
        Every Man Out of His Humor. Jonson has learned
the lesson of witty, Shakespearian prose and employs it to the
full in giving a fresh direction to his realistic conception of
his characters. But his witty explosions are not purely the play
of imagination, as in Shakespeare; they are utilitarian, used
to define or amplify the character.

22nd October
        His Richard II (which is Shakespeare's Edward II:
the deposed king and his passion) displays all the character-
istics of Shakespeare's youthful tragedies: declamatory pas-
sages, resounding, all-embracing adjectives. Here wit appears
in a frequent play on (serious) words. It needs to filter
through comic prose to become a true expression of irony.
But this play is far better than Marlowe's Edward, which
                                                       233
     This Business of Living
makes no attempt at imagination or wit or any play on words
but rushes straight on, merely talking about passion.

30th October
        Poetry consists of conveying on every page the same
thrill that reality gives. One believes one can achieve it by
following reality. ( Cascina was a failure.)
         ( Cf. 4th October, para. 2.) But is it enough to free
you from the bourgeois mentality, to reduce things to elemen-
tary indications short of culture? That is escape on the lowest
terms. Could there not be an escape on a higher level?

2nd November
        ". . . the first fable • . . the greatest ever imagined
from then onwards ••• so popular, perturbing, and instruc-
tive..••" (Scienza Nuova Seconda~ II, 1st sect. Chap. I.)
[This is the book by Giambattista Vico to which Pavese
constantly refers on 5th November.]
        This is the definition of your would-be popular-
perturbing-instructive-poetry.
        Italian poets like great constructions made up of very
short chapters, brief, savory passages, the fruit of the tree.
(Dante's short cantos; Boccaccio's short stories; Machiavelli's
brief chapters in his great works; Voci's aphorisms in Scienza
Nuova; Leopardi: the thoughts of Zibaldone; not to mention
the sonnet.) That is why it seldom concerns itself with nar-
rative (which requires a long, extended outpouring of effort
as in Russian or French novels), but is, instead, intellectual
and argumentative. It is the negation of naturalism, which in
fact began with the casual development of English narrative
prose by Defoe.

5th November
        Vico is the only Italian writer with any feeling for the
country way of life, outside Arcadia. The rough simplicity
of his style heightens the atmosphere of genuine rusticity. The
     234
                                                         1943
very fact that he only mentions it in passing, and then with
a definite purpose, confirms his sincerity.

5th November
Book IP
         p. 234: "Just as nowadays when our peasants want to
say that a sick man lives they say he still eats."
         p. 239: "Even as we daily observe in our stubborn
 peasants, who yield to every reasonable argument that is put
 to them, but, because their powers of reflection are weak, as
soon as the argument which has moved them has left their
minds, return at once to their original purpose."
         p. 241: "The fire that the heroes must have kindled
with flints and set to the thorny underbrush on the mountain
tops, dried out by the hot suns of summer";
         p. 249: " ..• Grain (the sole or at least the chief thing
for which the peasants labored all year) ."
        p. 253: " ... As a frog is born of a summer shower."
        p. 2 2 7 : "These people . . . would beat (their sons)
within an inch of their lives in the Temple of Diana, so that
they often fell dead in agonies of pain beneath their fathers'
blows."
        p. 200: "Similar payments in labor or goods are still
customary in the transactions of peasants."
        p. I 9 I : ". • . eternal property expressed in the saying
that servants are the paid enemies of their masters."
        p. 18q_: "And finally many are charged with rakes,
which are clearly agricultural implements."
        p. 1 7 1 : "And in the country districts of our most remote
provinces ... they give bread made from grain to the sick, and
they say the sick man is eating grain bread when they mean
he is at the point of death."
        p. 162 : " ••• Perennial springs, which for the most part
1These quotations taken from Scienza Nuova are given in the English
version by Bergin and Fisch (The New Science of Giambattista Vico,
New York, Cornell University Press, 1948).

                                                         235
      This Business of Living
rise in the mountains. Near such springs the birds of prey make
their nests, and consequently in their vicinity hunters set their
snares."
         p. 116: "The farmers of Latium used to say the fields
were thirsty.''
        And always the "peasant-heroes," the "farmers," the
"daily hands," etc.

6th November
        Today you made a discovery. The reflection that every
man is in a rut he has made for himself troubled you very
much at one period ( cf. 4th April, '41), then it seemed a
price to be paid gladly for being alive at all, and from then
on you stopped moaning about it, devoting your energies
instead to investigating how one begins to hollow out those
ruts in childhood (' 42 and '43). You started that research
even before re-reading Thomas Mann's jacob in December,
'42. You ended (September, '43) with the discovery of myth-
unity, which resolved your former mental fury and merged
it with your most lively creative mythological interests.
        And this proves that, for you, the need to create is
born of this law of a return to first causes. Bravo! It also
proves that the purpose of your life cannot be anything but
creation. How is it that, without knowing it, you directed
everything towards this central focal point? Inner logic,
providence, vital instinct?
        All is repetition, a second journey, a return. Indeed,
even the first time is a "second time." (26th September, I 942,
II.)
I   oth November
        For women, history does not exist. Murasaki, Sappho
and Madame Lafayette might be their own contemporaries.
Yet fashion exists for them. Is it a trick they have, or some
great talent, that enables them to appear at any moment
exactly as fashion decrees?
       236
                                                       1943

I Ith November
       Narrating incredible things as though they were real-
the old system; narrating realities as though they were in-
credible-the new.
12th November
         The pleasure of walking on the hilltops where the
little trees are, among all the casual, accidental features of
the landscape that will always be your own personal horizon!
Walking there, you may come to the edge of that horizon,
feel detached from it, louk at it from the other side. It is one
of those places that are unique.
14th November
        In M urasaki, nature is symbolic. A branch of blossom,
a bud, a conventional view, all assume that special quality.
But they grow monotonous, like all symbols: their significance
is always the same.
17th November
        There is a risk that your idea of ambivalence (avarice-
prodigality, laziness-activity, love-hate) may become a rule
in all your life; the same energy that produces an effect is
corrected by the opposite effect.
18th November
         (On Shakespeare's style, cf. gth October, '43·) The
fool, full of dialectic wit, is later replaced by a leading char-
acter who is either mad or driven beyond endurance (Hamlet,
Cleopatra, Lear, Macbeth), and then the witty speeches
can become tragic without losing their pithiness. That is
Irony.

I gth November
        Shakespeare reveals the landscape by his art of weaving
it into the dialogue ( cf. Act II of Titus Andronicus); ((the
                                                       237
     This Business of Living
moon ••• that tips with silver all these fruit treetops" in Act
III, scene 5· It is a simple device that dramatizes even nature.
        He shows us many other things in Romeo and ] uliet;
the flights of fancy describing Queen Mab (Shakespeare's own
poetry) in Act I, sc. 4; the well-devised secondary theme with
Mercutio; the piteous ending with its tragic judgment on
the world; the two contrapuntal strains, passionate love and
the mockery of love, with Romeo and Mercutio; · the comic
and most convincing (pre-Dickensian) eccentric character,
the Nurse.




1944
14th January
        Dialogue, conversation, is our natural custom. We
prefer to avoid long, informative accounts of events ( nar-
ration), or, rather, we change even these into conversation
by putting them into the first person and coloring them
according to the personality of the speaker. In short, what we
look for in a narrative is drama, not a scenic effect. Is this
due to the influence of the cinema, which has taught us to
distinguish between visual presentation and the spoken word
-the basic art ofthe theatre? What happens now is that the
cinema tells a story visually and the novel presents it verbally;
we no longer want to bother with the theatre. Even great
plays of the past we would rather read than see acted.

2gth January
         We humble ourselves to ask a favor, and so discover
the sweet, inward balm of the Kingdom of God. We almost
forget what we wanted to ask, longing only to enjoy forever
this outpouring of divinity. That, beyond all doubt, would
be my way of finding religious belief, my way of being faithful
to it, renouncing all else, letting myself sink into a sea of love,
     238
                                                       1944
faint with rapture at the first glimpse of such a possibility.
Perhaps everything lies in this trembling thought: "If it were
true ,,   . were really true..•.
     . If It

Ist February
        We feel this same glow of divinity when suffering has
brought us to our knees, so much so that the first pang can
give us a sense of joy, gratitude, anticipation.... We reach
the point of wanting pain.
        This rich, symbolic reality, heralding another even
more true and sublime, what is it but Christianity? To accept
it means, quite literally, entering into the world of the super-
natural.
        We must not, however, confuse it with the little hoard
of symbols that each of us makes for himself in life. In them
there is nothing supernatural, though there may be a psycho-
logical urge, an effort of will, to transform moments of
experience into moments of the Absolute. That is Protestantism
without God.

2nd February
        A certain pattern of daily life (with fixed hours, con-
fined spaces, always the same people, religious rites and places)
induces thoughts of the supernatural. Break away from that
pattern, and those thoughts vanish. We are wholly creatures
of habit.

grd February
       The place where you are really yourself is that avenue
in Turin, noble yet unpretentious, broad, calm and serene,
where it is always spring or summer and where your poetry
was made. The material came from many sources, but that
is where it took shape. That avenue, with its humble little
cafe was your study, your window on the world.
       When poetic inspiration comes to you, that is the sort
                                                       239
      This Business of Living
of place you try to find; when you are writing a story, no. Is
this only because story writing is less contemplative? Yet you
wrote M emorie di due stagioni in that cafe and most of
Paesi tuoi. Then....
        The fact is that you have lost your taste for observing,
feeling, gathering new experiences, and now you are eating
out your heart.

6th February
        A cypress and a house on the crest of the hill, dark
against the crimson sky-the place that evokes your passion
for this land of yours. Ethnology sprinkles such familiar places
with blood, shed irrationally, mythically. That is why.

7th February
        Blood is always shed irrationally. Every single thing is
a miracle, but one is more acutely aware of that in the case
of blood, because beyond it lies mystery.
        To weep is irrational; to suffer is irrational ( cf. "suf-
fering serves no purpose," in '38). Your problem, then, is to
evaluate the irrational. Your poetical problem is to evaluate
it without taking away its mythical quality.
        When we bleed, or weep, the amazing thing is that it
is we, ourselves, who perform an act that raises us to kinship
with the Universe, the Everything, the Myth.

8th February
         Why does something irrational raise us to such a
height? A romantic idea, but is that any reason for tossing it
aside? Beyond all doubt, the irrational is the vast reservoir of
the spirit, as legends are for nations. Your own creations are
drawn out of what is nebulous, irrational, and the problem is
how to convey them into the realm of consciousness. So true
that it seems banal.
         Amazement is the mainspring of every discovery. It is,
     240
                                                     1944
in fact, the emotion to which we are moved when faced with
the irrational. Your modernity lies wholly in your sense of
the irrational.

12th February
        "Sacrament" a1so means "symbol." Here is a way to
the conception of a symbol which is potent by combining the
gifts of the Holy Spirit with magic. Here is the common root
of poetry and religion, given that a symbol is also an image.
Ritual was originally the same thing, the cause producing the
effect; later, it became symbolic (pagan baptism and the
baptism of John). ( Cf. L. Allevi, Hellen ism and Christianity;
"Life and thought"; I 934, p. I I 7.)

13th February
       The richness of life lies in memories we have forgotten.

15th February
        Admiration, before being aesthetic, is religious. From
Shintoism (and the polytheism of the Greeks) is derived the
love of nature shown by the Japanese and the Greeks.

24th February
          There are people who view politics not as something
universal, but only as a legitimate defense.
         The things we do not write about are more than those
of which we do. Just as men in the mass move in the circle of
their own preoccupations and come, safe and sound, through
their various problems, so you, sick of literature though you
are, write of nothing but literary questions. As far as every-
thing else is concerned, you move among your own preoccu-
pations, dealing with them soundly and conscientiously. So
one can brush aside the stupid controversy against writers
and maintain that they, too, are men. At least as much as
illiterates, or those who do not write.
                                                      241
     This Business of Living

grd March
        I had the news on xst March.1 Do others exist for us?
I could wish that were not so; it would be less terrible. I am
living in a sort of fog, thinking of him all the time, but vaguely.
I shall end by making a habit of this state, always postponing
real grief until tomorrow; so one forgets, and has not suffered.

8th March
        This impression of solitary waiting in front of the hills
        Comes back to me for the second time.

17th March
         In The Maid's Tragedy, what is lacking is simply
imagination, and in the most unfortunate way. It seems im-
possible that this play ( x6og) gave rise to a new style. All
sense of wit is lost. All the fire and fantasy of Shakespearian
imagery (and that of Webster, too) has sunk into a dead,
stilted language in which the emotion is either mere sentiment
or a stage trick. Psychology has disappeared as well. All that
is left, especially in the first acts, is a strong, obsessive sense
of sex (tragic and comic), as in modem, contemporary plays.
Evadne is alive as long as she stands for sexual aspirations;
then she is redeemed and becomes of no account. The lan-
guage is lifeless. Ben Jonson at least knew how to talk in
dialect.
22nd March
        Philaster ( 1 6o8) is very different. In comic or tragic
vein, the language is rich, lively, full of meaning, reminiscent
of Shakespeare. It has a fine, colorful group of characters and
an air of good theatre, for which, I should say, the credit is
due to Beaumont. It lacks Shakespeare's ironic, significant
construction; the plot is sentimental and melodramatic
1 On rst March, Pavese learned that Leone Ginzburg, his close friend
and fellow-student at the University, who became the leader of the
resistance movement in Turin, had died under torture in the prison of
Regina Coeli on February 5th. Ed.
     242
                                                      1944
(though it has points of similarity with Cymbeline and The
Winter's Tale); and that is due to Fletcher.

24th March
        Bonduca makes the whole thing plain. It is by Fletcher
only, and has no rich, coherent imagination. In the comic
scenes there is buffoonery, but no fanciful witticism; in the
tragic, characters declaim but have no depth of thought.
Caratach, Petillius, Penius are lay figures with no life of their
own. In Shakespeare, all the imaginative sequences are appar-
ently polished with equal skill, and this gives his characters
a rich general humanity against which their individual traits
stand out clearly. As in life, where men seem all alike.
Fletcher's characterization, on the contrary, is abstract.

soth March
        On R. Guardini's Lo spirito della liturgia.
        p. 185: "If one examines the question more closely one
can easily perceive that the formula 'priority of Logos over
Ethos' need not be final and supreme. Perhaps one might say,
rather: in the general sphere of our life definite priority
should be given to being rather than to acting. In fact this
does not concern action so much as becoming: the supreme
value is not what we do, but what is and unfolds. The roots
and the conclusion of everything are not to be found in time,
but in eternity, in the eternal present. The ultimate value
lies not in the moral conception but in the metaphysical one,
not in the judgment of worth, but of essence, not in effort
but in adoration."
        p. 187: " . . . priority of truth, but in the realm of
love. . . ." In liturgy this position shall triumph: placid,
calm, contemplative, indifferent, non-authoritative, non-edu-
cative, play.

31st March
       Peter Wust, Uncertainty and risk.
       p. I g6: "Truly the primeval unconscious and objec-
                                                       243
     This Business of Living
tive instinct of human nature in its quest for happiness is
aimed above all at that full realization of oneseH by which
one attains personal perfection and eternal salvation through
the achievement of one's natural ends. The tendency to
'endemonia' agitating the depths of man is therefore primarily
the quest for the substantial perfection of his form, and only
in a lesser sense is it a search for a subjective moment of
happiness, of repose, of definite harmony of the soul, in con-
nection with the objective moment of 'endemonia.' "

4th April
       "There are many dawns which have not yet shone:
give us that we may see them, 0 Varuna!" (Rig-Veda, II,
28. Translation by Darmester from the translation by M.
Muller. Origins et developpement de la Religion etudies     a
la lumiere des religions de l,Inde.)

12th April
         How can God want prolonged humiliations in prayer,
endless repetitions of rites and ceremonies? Wouldn't you,
yourself, instinctively prefer a swift thought of acknowledg-
ment, a glance of concord from someone you have helped,
and abhor all those mournful thanksgivings? You are not
God, but still. . . .
         True Georgie poetic feeling in Italian, and the only
study of nature that accords with our temperament, is to be
found in prose works on agriculture by such men as Pier dei
Crescenzi, Davanzati and Soderini. The description is com-
pletely sincere and (the reason why it continues to live)
utilitarian. Here and there a phrase is often, and truly, a
whole poem, which cannot be said for the verses produced
during the same period.

16th April
       The classical poets have no need for descriptions of
nature because in their works gods and sacred places conjure
up multiple visions of natural surroundings. (On reading
Hippolytus.)
    244
                                                      1944
        When we are tormented by a noise, a smell, an
unpleasant sensation, our discomfort can be sudden, brutal
and most painful. But we also feel half-hopeful that the
culprit will repeat the offense and so give us cause to rush out
at him in fury.

18th April
        Concrete evidence:
        (a) The Pharisees do not doubt the resurrection of
Christ. (Barravalle.)
        (b) The promises made by God to Eve and Abraham
do not mention the chosen people, but the whole human race.
        The same applies to Jacob's promise to Judas. (Bos-
suet.)
        The same applies to Zachariah, Haggai and Malachi.

2oth April
        In the Helena by Euripides the chorus recapitulates
the events or recalls known facts. This confirms the Greek
tragedy's character of a judgment which takes place before
a chorus-audience. It is not a story.
        The tragic motive is nearly always a hidden thing
emerging with some difficulty (Hippolytus-Ion)-it is, there-
fore, a debate. This hidden thing is often a crime committed
by the gods and which, by coming to light, produces either
death-purification or a happy ending. The divine crime is the
"what should be must be/' which you discovered in 1942.

24th April
       Those races who possess a rich mythological back-
ground are those who thereafter become the most dogged
philosophers: the Indians, the Greeks and the Gennans.

29th April
        Concrete evidence:
        Samaritans and Hebrews have the same Pentateuch.
It follows that the Pentateuch preceded the separation, in
                                                      245
     This Business of Living
other words it existed before Jeroboam and Rehoboam and
for that reason, "a fortiori," before Ezra. ( Bossuet.)

15th May
         Have you ever pondered on the fact that those who
originated the Italian novel-seeking in despair for fluent
narrative prose-are primarily lyric writers-Alfieri, Leopardi,
Foscolo? The Vita, I Frammenti di Diario and Il Viaggio
Sentimentale are the sediment of imaginative minds entirely
given up to illuminating flashes of lyrical eloquence. And the
first successful novel, I Promessi S posi, is the maturity of a
great lyric writer. This must have left traces upon our narrative
standard.
         On the other hand, think of English or French novels
of the eighteenth century and Spanish works in the seven-
teenth: there, the prose of the novel was born without a spark
of imagination, as in nineteenth-century Russia.

22nd May
        Your conviction that what one was as a child he will
be as an adult, and never will the "span of his bridge" become
shorter or longer has now lost all its dreariness and has moved
into the realm of the search for the fantastic roots of the
"instant-eternity."

27th May
        The idea, which you considered a whim, of "modifying
your own past" (Spring, I 939?) is now clearly in line with
your present way of thinking: the rediscovery of infancy,
carried out, of course, by modifying its meaning, which means
discovering it.
        Who knows how many things have happened to me:
what a very good question on which to base your "summa."
It simply means: who knows in how many different lights I
shall again see my past, and this implies that I shall discover
in it many new developments.
        It is difficult to transform oneself into a Dantesque
     246
                                                      1944
"!," a symbolic Ego, when one's own problems are the product
of such an individual experience as the "city-countryside"
and when all figurations lead only to personal and psycho-
logical meanings. (The vine, the sky behind it, the seascape,
the fruit-bearing trees, canes, hay-stacks, etc., can at their
best become only an absolute of toilsome usefulness. The fact
that you are lost is proven by your search for an outlet
through the magic power of such symbols or in the artichoke
richness of their many strata. If nobody else thinks of these
things, you are going to be all right.)

8th June
       . . . and the man who did that is a Christian. If he
had not been a Christian he would have done worse.

13th June
       Memory is the absence of imagination (Rousseau,
Emile, I, II) : "in things that we see every day, it is no longer
imagination working, but memory"-"habit kills imagina-
tion." Yet the memory of far-off things brings objects back to
us renewed, no longer habitual, but broken into new facets by
time and forgetfulness and so made into something that spurs
our imagination, all the more so because things remembered
are new, yet mysteriously our own.

14th June
         In 1824 Leopardi's letters became dry, consisting only
of facts and figures, devoid of thoughtful effusions and of all
self-pity. He was writing the Operette Morali. In 1825-26
he did not complain much, he was almost healthy and ap-
peared to enjoy life. He lived in Milan and Bologna and was
a senator.

17th June
        Nations achieving supreme power are generally quite
unaware thaf they are in process of creating an empire. Dedi-
cated to a series of minor tasks, they find, by dint of conquest
                                                        247
     This Business of Living
after conquest, they have brought about a great historical
design. Those that ride forth with a blare of trumpets to
become "the great nation," break their legs at the first fence,
as normally happens in this world. Then all the other nations
who have been alarmed at their program, hasten to hamstring
them. In short, even in this, what they receive is not what
they were seeking. Always.

 26th June
         Pierre Comeille, Da la tragedie, et des moyens de la
 traiter selon la vraisemblance ou le necessaire. He says of
 Aristotle: ". . . theatres in his time when it was not customary
 to save the good people by the downfall of the bad ones, unless
 they, too, were defiled by crimes..•.'' As regards the four
 tragic actions which "take place among close relations,: (a)
 one knows and kills the victim; (b) the victim's identity is dis-
covered only after the killing; (c) one does not know the
victim's identity and one discovers it in time to abstain from
murder; (d) the victim's identity is known, but the killing is
prevented at the last moment. In Aristotle's belief the last
case is the worst one. Comeille draws a distinction: if the
would-be killer abstains through a change of heart, fine, but
the best tragedy is that in which the abstention is due to a
great event, because this presupposes the "conflict between
passion and nature, or duty and love." Chimene does her best
to destroy the Cid. Either this contrast or the punishment of
the evil ones: such is modem tragedy, such is Christian
psychology.
         You have written once that for the ancients it was the
isolated hero who counted, the man who spoke a soliloquy,
the man who faced the chorus. These contrasts do not exist.
The bad ones, not being seen in terms of contrast, are not bad.
They simply are, just like the good.
         P.S. Let us remember that Aristotle condemns (a) and
 (d) and approves of (b) and (c). He condemns, in fact,
the cases which might reflect a possible inner conflict and
approves the coup de scene, in which there is no moral life.
     248
                                                       1944

2nd July
        Comeille, "Epitre" from the Suite du Menteur: " .•• I,
who agree with Aristotle and Horace that our art should
only aim to please • . • as long as they please, they have ful-
filled their obligation to their art; and if they sin, it is not
against it but against accepted social behavior and their
            ,
public....
         "Reward for good deeds and punishment for bad
ones . . • that imaginary law is completely opposed to ancient
tradition: without citing examples among the Greeks, Seneca
•.• Plautus and Terence...."

7th July
       Herodotus is for Jiinger what Homer is for Vico.

gth July
       Rousseau's enormous success is explained by the fact
that he made more profound, and interpreted, a cultural
world already known and accepted for centuries, Arcadia.
The reasons why his innovations evoked such enthusiasm is
that they contain flattering, intriguing new ideas while still
allowing readers to cherish what they know and love.

1 xth   July
           Hath not our mother Nature, for her store
           And great increase, said it is good and just,
           And willed that every living creature must
           Beget his like?
                           (The Faithful Shepherd, Act V, sc. 4).
        All woodland fables have this thought, this appeal to
nature. Rousseauism in embryo. But not only that. They all
have a "forest hermit," who generally collects herbs and
studies the more or less magical qualities of potions. Strange
that Rousseau knew nothing of magic. But German philoso-
phers of nature made up for that.
        Long ago I noted that all pastoral fables are based
                                                        249
     This Business of Living
on the chastity of Diana, which must be preserved by various
caprices and is at last yielded in a love affair. When it is not
so yielded, the hermits are simply hermits.

I 3th July
          In War and Peace there is everything unendurable
that the nineteenth century produced. One of the good things
is missing, demonism.
          Nature becomes savagery when some forbidden thing
happens; bloodshed or sex. That may seem an illusion, based
 on the impression you have formed of primitive culture-
 ceremonial rites of sex or bloodshed. From them it is plain
 that a savage is not living naturally, but in a state of violent
superstition. Nature is impassive. If a man falls from a fig-
tree in a vineyard and lies prone on the ground in his own
 blood, that does not seem to you "savage," as it would had
he been stabbed or sacrificed.
          Any man who gives way to brute passion is super-
stitious.

14th July
        In fact a man in love or one consumed with hatred
creates symbols for himself, as a superstitious man does, from
a passion for conferring uniqueness on things or persons. A
man who knows nothing of symbols is one of Dante's slug-
gards. This is why art mirrors itself in primitive rites or strong
passions, seeking for symbols, revolving round the primitive
taste for savagery, for what is irrational (blood and sex).

17th July
        The plague of descriptions of nature, complacent ap-
peals to things or to the world in general, in works of art arises
from a misconception: the work, seeking to be a natural
object like any other, thinks to succeed by reproducing as
many of them as possible, as in a mirror. But the nature of a
mirror does not lie in the reflections that flit across its surface;
they are only its utility.
     250
                                                        1944
         When we say that poetry is original thought expressed
 in rhythm, we simply mean to define its nature. Our own
 poetry strives always to eliminate objects, to become its own
object, the substance of words. Verbal sensuality, generally
 decadent as in D'Annunzio's work, confuses this substance
with the mere flesh of things, a universal imitation of sounds.
In our work the expression is pure, disembodied, finding its
rhythm in something far deeper than the voice of things: as
though unaware of itself, reluctant to say all it might. Herein
lies our anxiety, distrusting words though they are our only
reality; seeking the substance of something about which we
are still unsure; hesitating, suffering.
         Even my Lavorare stanca has this about it, under the
surface; seeking its object below the sound and shape of the
words, striving for a rhythm that should be neither a song nor
verbal sensuality. For this reason it avoids musical verse and
uses neutral words. Its one mistake was to indulge in phrases
colored by the spoken word, which is another way of holding
a mirror up to nature. But, little by little, it freed itself,
disciplined by the rhythm. Then, in the prose passages, it
relapsed into the spoken word. Why? Because it lacked the
support of the rhythm. Now the problem is how to penetrate
to the essential substance while taking this support for granted.
         The life of the subconscious. The work we achieve is
always something other than we intended. So one goes on, and
one's deep inner ego is always intact; if it seems exhausted,
it is only shaken and confused by fatigue, like water clouded
with mud, but then it grows clear again, as full of purpose as
before. There is no way of bringing that purpose to the sur~
face; the surface is never anything more than a play of
reflections of other things.

18th July
         Love is a feverish attack that leaves behind an aversion.
Every day of our lives, however, we are aware of gay young
bodies all around us: it is natural that most of our experience
lies with them.
                                                         251
     This Business of Living

2oth July
       The support which prose enjoys from rhythm, others
have found in cadenced repetition (Stein, Vittorini, etc.).

25th July
       The foamy smell of maceration, which is the briny of
the countryside.

30th July
         "Listening to pure and agreeable sounds, it seems we
are ready to penetrate the secret of the Creator and seize the
mystery of life." (Corinne.) This happens whenever one feels
any natural event, such as the smell of a flower, the ripple of
water, the luscious taste of grapes. Music is the most material
of the arts ( cf. Lamartine; Histoire des Girondins, "music, the
least intellectual and the most sensual of the arts" ) because only
thought is immaterial and there are no conscious elements in
music. Music strives to dress up the form of its sensations as
symbols, but the comparison is too wide and never seems fit.
In effect music has exactly the function I have described on
July I 7th, in that it offers something in place of nature, so much
so that nothing in nature is equivalent to music.

8th August
        It is nice and consoling to think that not even a mar-
ried man has solved the problem of his sexual life. He thought
that now he could lead a peaceful and virtuous life, but
what happens is that after a while one becomes disgusted
with the woman. The very sight of her is enough to make you
gasp for air, as you do when you are with a prostitute. (Cf.
Tolstoi and ... ) One then realizes that life with a woman
is uncomfortable, even if one has not yet come upon the
question of "having a baby each time," which compels us to
abstain or to seek other precautions. In both cases, it would
appear, one has lost that beautiful sincerity.
    252
                                                       1944

10th August
        In Greek tragedy everything is sacred, preordained,
the will of God.

Igth August
         What is so charming about Vico is his constant
wandering between what is savage and what is rustic, each
trespassing in the other's field. The whole of history is reduced
to this germ.

20th August
        A heraldic sense may be the best description for this
faculty of seeing symbols everywhere.
        Though all his interpretations are wrong and absurd,
Vico brought to history a feeling for interpretation, a taste
for examining documents against the light of day. With this
end in view he created for himself a psychology which broad-
ened his heraldic sense into a necessary faculty of the human
mind.
        Facts in themselves are not so interesting as the fact
that they are hidden and can be discovered. A similar experi-
ence was undergone by the artists of this century who con-
centrated more on telling the tale than on the tale itself.
The human spirit counts inasmuch as it expresses itself. To
contemplate a symbol is to contemplate an expression. Mono-
mania of technicism.

23rd August
       To fall from a fig tree and lie stretched in a pool of
blood (cf. 13th July) is not an unnatural event, not "savage,"
but becomes so if it is regarded as a law of life. If, in one
way or another, blood gushes forth in torrents on the ground
and beasts naturally swallow it, while the fallen man has no
rights of appeal, that is savage because our feelings would
prohibit such a thing; a mere event, not a law. Here one's
natural feeling is to blame nature, which, by its very lack of
                                                        253
      This Business of Living
feeling, seems to be performing a rite and to be, itself, super-
stitious.
         Every inadequate theodicy is superstitious. When any
vindication of the justice of God is superseded, it becomes
superstition. Justice, as long as it is just, is natural.

 26th August
         Impassive nature celebrates a rite; man, whether im-
passive or wrought to a pitch of excitement, celebrates his even
more terrifying rites; such things are superstitious only if they
strike us as unjust, forbidden by conscience, ~:~-avage. Then
savagery is overruled by conscience. As long as we believe in
superstition we are not superstitious. To be superstitious is
essentially retrospective, in the realm of memory, an apt
subject for poetry; like evil, which is always in the realm of
past remorse; while activity, in the realm of the present, is
good. But how is it that the exercise of memory is a pleasure,
a good thing?
         Again. To celebrat~ a rite is to justify oneself. Nature,
then, is not superstitious because she celebrates a rite (of
blood), but because that rite does nothing to justify her. To
us it seems merely chance (though it may be regulated by a
law). Like savage rites that no longer appear to us sufficient
to justify the one who performs them.
         Perhaps to exercise one's memory is a pleasure, and
a good thing, because it is a thing of the present. (Cfr. xoth
September.)
        Alexandrine des Echerolles (history of the siege of
Lyons).
        Jeanne de La Force (history of the religious wars of
1622).
        Madame de Ia Rochejaquelein (Vendee).
        Madame Roland-Memoires.

27th August
        The great task of life is to justify oneself, and to justify
oneself is to celebrate a rite. Always.
     254
                                                         1944

29th August
       Only uniqueness justifies . . . the absolute value which
puts us above all contingencies (Of myths of Symbols etc.).

Ist September
         Impassive nature is perhaps simply a collection of
rites that we have surmounted, the most ancient of the super-
stitions by which the universe tried to justify itself. It was so
by instinct, founded on laws of its own and drawing out of
them a reason for life. Then, with the advent of the spirit,
nature became arbitrary, the divine will, and rites shaped
themselves accordingly. Now it has reverted to a law a mech-
anism-that is why instinct is emerging again and the true
ritual of rationalistic epochs is art (the ritual of the instinctive
subconscious).
         From 23rd August it results that outside our moral
conscience there is no criterion of certainty except superstition.
The truth of the universe is modeled on our moral sense.
Religion is the meeting of truth and justice. Every crisis can
be reduced to a lack of balance between these vital necessities.

2nd September
         Any explanation of the universe that thinks to blend
truth and justice but no longer succeeds in doing so, is super-
stition. Outside religion there is only suspended judgment-
as far as that is possible.
         The savage is not picturesque, but tragic.
         You have dealt up till now with two kinds of savage.
ln Nudismo you have touched upon what is savage to the
adult, the virgin countryside, that which has not yet been
spoilt by the human hand (and here it is implicit that any
work, any rite, can justify nature). In Storia segreta you
have described the savage that is in a boy, something that
is remote and evasive, even if, and in fact more so, others
succeed or have succeeded in seizing it. (In both cases this
is what we are missing, "that which we do not know.'')
                                                          255
     This Business of Living
        Poetry, now, is the effort to grasp superstition-the
savage, the unspeakable-and give it a name, understand it,
make it harmless. Hence true art is tragic-it is an effort.
Poetry participates in everything that conscience forbids-
intoxication, passionate love, sin-but redeems itself by its
need for contemplation, that is, for knowledge.

grd September
         Smoking is something entirely rustic and natural. This
transformation of a dry herb into a cloud of fragrant, lively,
fertilizing smoke is not without significance. In other days
it would quickly have become a symbol (like the pipe of
Gitche Manito in Longfellow) .

4th September
        Important writers are swept away by the passing of
their generation, not because of criticism, a new evaluation,
but simply because their soundness is denied en bloc. Men
condemn anything that precedes their own work.

5th September
        Of the seven instances in which Herodotus, in describ-
ing Egypt, states that he is reluctant to touch upon the
mysteries, three are cases of animal gods, two of phallic rites,
and the other two deal with self-inflicted wounds and sacred
enlightenment. Why is Pan depicted with caprine head and
legs (XLVI); why is pork flesh considered obscene during
the rest of the year and eaten only on the feast of Bacchus
 (XLVII)? Why are animals generally sacred (LXV)? At
this point Herodotus feels threatened by a taboo and is afraid
to speak. Why do the phallic figures in the feast of Bacchus
have an articulated phallus moved by wires (XLVIII), and
why do the Athenians carve phallic statues ( LI) ? Herodotus
knows very well that the phallus and the god coincide, but
does not dare to say it. In whose name do they fight during
the feast of Isis (LXI), and why do they have a feast of
    256
                                                       1944
lamps at Sais (LXII) ? Behind these customs too there is
probably some mischief or other which Herodotus' worldly
and respectful curiosity dares not confront.
        This exemplifies the Greek way of dealing with the
savage: one acknowledges with tolerant respect its sacred
nature and that is all. This respect implies the rational knowl-
edge that the whole world of what is sacred and divine
conceals such chasms, and it is therefore necessary to leave
well alone.
        Once people sacrificed to the gods without naming
them ( LII) . Only a short time before Homer and Hesiod had
described the gods and told stories about them (LUI)-
Herodotus sounds almost reproachful about this.

7th September
       The mysterious passages in Herodotus' Book II are
these: LXI, LXXXI, LXXXVI, CXXXII, CLXX, CLXXI.
In each of these one finds covert references to Osiris, who
however remains unmentioned. Why? At other times Her-
odotus mentions the name, but adds that is a version of
Bacchus ( CXLIV).

8th September
        Prophecy by oracle is no more than the imaginative
expression of destiny. Things happened, and the ancients gave
them the stamp of uniqueness by making them foreseen by
the god.
        A beautiful country girl, a beautiful prostitute, a beau-
tiful young mother, all these women for whom beauty is not
the artificial occupation of their whole life, are firmly imper-
vious to mockery.

I oth September
        The exercise of memory is a pleasure and a benefit
( cf. 26th August) because it involves knowledge. To re-evoke
a superstition is not to practice it but to learn about it.
                                                       157
    This Business of Living

30th September
        The arches and columns of loggias create conventional
landscapes by serving as frames for them. Obviously the
impression is increased by the memory of so many fourteenth-
century craftsmen whose paintings are divided up by columns
and arches in just the same way. The man who invented
loggias knew nothing of this effect, which came about when
this new style of architecture appeared in paintings.

1st October
        There comes a time when we take into account the
fact that everything we do will become a memory in due
course. That is maturity. To reach it, one must already have
memories.

srd October
        Boiardo is an honest poet-narrator. His adjectives are
epithets, in other words small lyrical blocks visible under the
narration's stream as objects, not as impressions. His speeches,
his exclamations are well-defined melodic windows, one could
almost call them pre-existing modulations, and they too form
a block, as objects, in the stream. After one has read an episode
one remembers the gestures and the actions, not the feelings.

7th October
        "If a man be fair he will do fair things, or else, by
doing them, he will become fair'' (Council of Trent, Barbera
edition, vol. II, p. 77). The scholastic opinion that one may
be just "in abstracto" is not without reflections in the practice
of medieval allegory: abstractions become part of man in-
dependently of his objective or psychological activities.

2oth October
        To be fearless and to be right: the two opposite poles
of history. And of life. The one generally contradicts the other.
     258
                                                       1944

grd November
         A dream always leaves an impression of something
grandiose and absolute. That comes from the fact that in a
dream there are no commonplace details, but, as in a work
of art, everything is devised for its effect.

 7th November
        Horace, Letter to Augustus:
        ... vestigia ruris . • . (line I 6o).
        In this letter the concept of "rus" is opposed to that of
 "ars" and it is used to recall the primitive lack of culture.
This is your savage. Not even if one wants to condemn it can
 one renounce the countryside. See Vico. He is a perfect
humanist, opposed to the contemporary scientific habit of
considering barbarism as a previous stage to rusticity. Locke is
incontrovertible, but abstract (husbanding peoples, hunting
peoples) . Vico, too, recognized that form of barbarism, but
relegated to pre-divine chaos.
        The hick, the rustic, the boor, as opposed to the citi-
zen. But humanism blended what is rustic with what is myth-
ical, and thus had its savage ( cf. Vico). Now it would appear
that the savage pre-existed the rustic, divested of myth.

26th November
       Dreams are symbols of reality. You dreamed that
someone had wrongfully sold your books and you were over-
come with gri~f and anxiety. Your real sorrow was that they
are slowly deteriorating in the cellar. Passion in a dream is
never untrue. It creates for itself a fact (a symbol) which
makes its expression possible.

2nd December
        It seems impossible that even a single spark of good-
ness, hope or love, though encased in a whole crust of iniquity
or indifference, should flicker out and stand for nothing in
                                                       259
    This Business of Living
an eternity of suffering. Once more I know the feeling that
one longs for pain so as to draw nearer to God.

28th December
        (Eratry: Commentary on St. Matthew,s gospel.)
        The very suggestion that the subconscious may be
God, that God lives and speaks in our subconscious mind, has
exalted you. If, with this idea of God, you review all the
thoughts of the subconscious scattered here and there in this
work-don't you see?-you are changing all your past and
discovering many things. Above all, your toilsome research
for the symbol is illumined by its infinite significance.




1945
gth January
        A strange, rich year that began and ended with God,
with much deep thought on the primitive and the savage, and
which has seen some notable creative work. It could be the
most important year of your life so far. If you persevere with
God, it certainly will be. (It must not be forgotten that God
means also a technical cataclysm-symbolism built up through
years of following the gleam.)

16th January
       The peoples who practiced the most frequent, most
atrocious human sacrifices were those who lived by agriculture
(matriarchal civilizations). Shepherds, hunters, artisans were
never cruel like tillers of the soil.

26th January
       You wanted an excuse not to move. Here it is. Who
should be thanked? You hoped for a miracle and it happened.
For now, be humble. You shall judge it by its fruits.
    260
                                                          1945

28th January
        A tropical garden amid the snow. Magnolias, firs,
yew trees, cypresses, lemon groves--dark green, bronzed and
metallic against the azure sky. But what uplifts you most is
the red brick wall of the farm stables. There, are all the most
intense natural colors: green, blue, red, white. Is it the un-
familiarity of it all that strikes you, or is there some secret
virtue in these pure qualities?
        It is easy for colors to become symbols. They are the
most visible quality of an object, but not the object itself.
Remembering you once said that legend lives in epithets,
colors would be the epithets of things. Pure creation. All sen-
sations-that of music, for instance, are symbols that tend to
take the place of nature.

soth January
        The man who cannot live with charity, sharing other
men's pain, is punished by feeling his own with intolerable
anguish. Pain is rendered acceptable only by raising it to the
level of our common destiny and sympathizing with other
sufferers. The penalty of the egoist is that he realizes this
only when he himself is under the lash; then he vainly strives
to learn charity, out of self-interest.

4th February
        Blondel, L'Action. "Man always endows his acts, how-
ever obscurely he knows it, with this quality of transcendance.
What he does is never done simply for the sake of doing it"
(p. 353). "Even among those who say they are free of all
superstition, one should notice this need for ritual and this
counterfeiting of a true liturgical cult, the all too visible poverty
of quite naked action" (p. 312). ( Cf. 27th August, '44·)

13th February
       The "unique event" which you find so exciting can
only have its full value if it has never taken place. It must
                                                           261
     This Business of Living
remain a myth, engulfed in tradition and past; it must be, in
other words, a thing of your memory. In fact spiritism, mir-
acles, etc., can only bore you. Inasmuch as such things "hap-
pen" they are no longer unique, but become normal events
even though they take place outside all natural laws (in so
far as they happen, they come under a law, though an occult
one).
        All that one may discuss about such events is their
authenticity, their pros and cons, but they are a negation of
imaginative uniqueness. 1

18th February
          The "return of events" in ·Thomas Mann, and espe-
cially the chapter "Ruben goes to the well" express substan-
tially an evolutionist concept. Events try to happen, and each
time they are more satisfactory, more perfect. The "mythical
imprints" are like the "forms of the genus." What appears
to detach this concept from naturalistic determinism is that
it's factors are not sexual choice or the struggle for existence,
but a constant act of volition by God that a certain program
may be transformed in reality. After all Mann,s enunciation
seems to imply that what decides, moment by moment, the
course of even~ is the human spirit which, according to its
own laws, perceives them and "makes them happen" each
time substantially similar but also richer. If one were to
describe this conception in a unitary sense one could call it
a Kantian formalism applied to mythological material. Behind
all this there is Vico.

2nd March
        L. Todesco, Corso di Storia della Chiesa (Marietti,
1925), val. III, p. 539:
        ". . • The main instruments of torture were: the
brazier with lighted charcoal to which the accused person's
feet were brought; the rope (the accused being lifted up with
1   In the manuscript this appears as uniqueness absolute. Ed.
        262
                                                     1945
it and then let down); and finally the rack: therefore, mainly,
gymnastics.,

12th March
       In the long run, grief grows detached from the anxiety,
the recollection, the suspicion that caused it, and lives on
alone in the spirit. Tonight you were suffering, and then the
moment came when you sought within yourself for the for-
gotten or not yet remembered cause of your pain.

15th March
        The first breaking-forth of tiny leaves is an outburst
of little green flames, jewels appearing among the dead
branches that clothe themselves in green and bedeck them-
selves.

25th March
       To express admiration one says that a thing is like
something else: a confirmation of the fact that we never see
a thing the first time but only the second-when it has
changed into something else. Confirmation and explanation :
in so far as we admire it, the first thing is the second, that
is we see it the second time under another aspect.

5th April
        To live in any environment is fine when one's spirit
is elsewhere: in the city when we dream of the country, in
the country when we dream of the town, anywhere else when
we dream of the sea. This may seem sentimentalism, but is
not. On the contrary, it proves the all-pervadingness of the
imagination. We assess the value of one reality only by filter-
ing it through another, only when it changes into another.
That is why the child discovers the world through literary
or legendary transfigurations, all of them formalized. That
is why the essence of poetry is imagination.
        From that we can deduce that the world, life in gen-
                                                      263
    This Business of Living
eral, acquires value only when one's mind is turned to an-
other reality, outside this world. We might even say, when
one's spirit is turned to God. Is it possible?

6th April
        So you affirm the existence of God in so far as you
postulate the value of the world and of life. But it is precisely
this value that is now made plain. This value exists. You feel
it, and it has a value beyond what one feels. What would
be the point of an objective value that one did not feel?

18th April
         The petals of the apple and pear blossom are flying in
the wind and the ground is strewn with them. They look like
butterflies.

23rd April
        In the III book of the Aeneid, one meets simulta-
neously with a sequence of portentous events and the names
of famous mythological landmarks. The portents are mythical
and the mythical names are portentous. This is religious
poetry.
        The religion of Herodotus. So many countries, so many
portents. This is not only the book of the "grande route," but
also the book of the breathless quest for a fatherland, for
the footprints left by the ancestors.
        This is what was "sacred" in the ancient world, and
what the ancients were seeking in life and in art. Not the
beautiful.

25th April
        To roam the streets and find marvels, that is the great
incentive, yours especially.

2nd July
      Sex, blood and alcohol: the three Dionysian moments
of human life. No one can escape from one or the other.
     264
                                                   1945

28th August (Then Rome)
       When a word, a deed, a suspicion has caused us a
strong outburst of passion, there comes a moment when, on
thinking it over, we no longer recall what that word, deed
or suspicion was, but our passion grows ever more intense.

6th September
       There is nothing fine about being a child: it is fine,
when we are old, to look back to when we were children.

Isth October
        People made gods of animals because animals were
"the other thing," outside humanity; and because the animal
did not seem an individual. It was a beast in general, not in
particular.

14th October
      (The moon was trembling.)

Isth October
        What would you say if, one day, all natural things-
springs, woods, vineyards, the countryside-vanish from the
earth, absorbed by the cities, remembered only in phrases from
bygone times? They will have the same effect as the gods,
nymphs and sacred groves we find in certain Greek poetry.
Then the simple phrase: ''There was a spring of water" will
be deeply moving.

18th November
      I am your lover, and therefore your enemy.

22nd November
         We do not free ourselves from something by avoiding
it, but only by living through it.
                                                     265
     This Business of Living

23rd November
        When we drive away a beggar we say to him: "You
will find all you want at the next farm." To him that hath,
to him shall be given.

26th November
         How can there be, between a man and a woman,
anything more important than love? That would mean that
it is possible to regard a woman as one does oneself; agree--
ing with her every gesture and movement as though they
were our own, feeling pleased that she should enjoy her own
pleasures as we enjoy our own, not feeling deprived if she
does with others what we do with others, which means loving
our neighbor as ourselves. That sort of love is called charity.
But if she disappears? Can we love a vanished part of our-
selves? We should have to believe that no one ever disappears,
that there is no such thing as death.
        She will die and you will be lonely as a dog. What
remedy is there?
        Very well, then. But if you can accept death for your-
self, how can you refuse anyone else the right to accept it?
That, too, is charity. You can arrive at nothingness, but not
resentment or hate. Always remember that nothing is owed
to you. In fact, what do you deserve? Had you any claim
on life when you were hom?

27th November
        It came to you for the third time, today. It is dawn,
a dawn of scattered cloud, pale mauve. The Tiber has the
same color. Sad, but not overbearingly so, ready to be cheered
by the sun. Houses and trees are still sleeping. I watched the
dawn j.ust now, from the side windows. There wa.~ haze, still-
ness, and a human warmth. Astarte-Aphrodite-Melita is still
sleeping. She will wake in a bad humor. For the third time,
my day has come. The keenest pang of my grief is to know
that grief will pass. Now it is easy to feel humiliated, but
    266
                                                      1945
what next? (I was rejected) on 13th August, '37 in the after-
noon; on 25th September, '40 in the evening; and on 26th
November, '45 at night. Exactly the opposite of what we were
taught. When young we mourn for one woman, as a grown
man, for women in general.
        What a great thought it is that truly nothing is due to
us. Has anyone ever promised us anything? Then why should
we expect anything?
        Yet it is quite simple. When we no longer exist we
die, and that is that.
        Aphrodite has "come from the sea."
        This terrible feeling that what you do is all awry, so
is what you think, what you are! Nothing can save you be-
cause, no matter what decision you take, you know you are
distorted and so will your decision be.

28th November
        How can you have confidence in a woman who will
not risk entrusting her whole life to you, day and night?

2nd December
         The woman who jilts another man to come to you,
will jilt you for someone else. All those little things she does
to charm you, she will do to charm another in your place.
But you know that such things are like a myth-they have
value only in being unique. And then .•• ?

7th December
      T. told you only that your poems were enough for
           you, and she loved them very much.
      F. without discussing their practical application, had
           read them with patient curiosity.
      B. says that they are all you will have, and, viewing
           them critically, she quite likes them.
      This makes twice in the last few days that you have
putT., F. and B. side by side, showing how the myth recurs.
                                                       267
     This Business of Living
What has been, will be. There is no remission. You were
thirty-seven and all the conditions were favorable. You are
looking for trouble!
        The body blow that . . . • dealt you, you still feel it
in your blood. You have done your utmost to accept it, have
even forgotten it, but that does not mean you can escape the
consequences of it. You know you are alone? That you are
nothing, and that is why she left you? Is it any good to
talk about it, own up to it? You have found it does no good
at all.
gth December
        But all fools, rogues, criminals were once children,
played like you and believed that something fine lay ahead
for them. When we were all three years old, or seven, before
anything had happened to us, when everything lay dormant
in our nerves, and in our hearts.



1946
Ist January
        That year, too, is finished. The hills, Turin, Rome.
You have gone through four women, published a book, written
some fine poems and discovered a new form that weaves
together many different threads (the dialogue of Circe). Are
you happy? Yes, you are happy. You have power, you have
genius, you have something to do. You are alone.
        Twice this year you have toyed with the idea of
suicide. Everyone admires you, compliments you, dances
around you. Well, then?
      You have never had to fight. Remember that. You
never will fight. Do you count for anything with anyone?
6th January
        Gods, for you, are the others, individuals who are self-
sufficient, supreme, seen from the outside.
     268
                                                      1946

12th January
        In Greek tragedy there are no wicked characters. It is
not a matter of allocating responsibility but of stating a fact-
a destiny,

26th January
        To be hardened-that means keeping your own work
ever more clearly before you, watching it reach fulfilment,
knowing that little spurts of effort are enough to keep it
going, and letting other people-in the feminine-play round
you with their temptations and their wiles. You know how it
would be-the disturbance, the ferment, the sudden shock
when it ends-and so you let them rave, without being cap-
tured or dominated by them. You have something else to do.
That is "being hardened."
        "Being a god" in these little mythological dialogues, is
the same thing as "being hardened." Their formulae-fate,
a god, a mortal, a name, a smile-contain a rich reality, but
only within the bounds of that world. The atmosphere, the
tone, the background are all coherent in the myth, but would
not mean what they do mean if they were reduced to present-
day sophistication.

8th February
        Twelve months ago, you did not know how much life
would bring you in the course of the year. But was it really
life? Perhaps your sorrowful, introspective walk to Crea taught
you, symbolically, more than all the women, the passions, the
things you experienced in those months. Certainly, the myth
is a discovery you owe to Crea, to the summer and two win-
ters you spent there. The whole mountain is imbued with it.
        Today, the woman who lives with . . . . came into
my study as she often does, said good-day then quietly sat
down and watched me. Every man has a woman, a human
body, peace. But have you? And the husband of the woman
who lives with ... , who is he? Has he still got a wife?
                                                       269
     This Business of Living
        If a man has not always had a woman, he will never
have one.
        Certainly, to have a woman who waits at home for
you, who will sleep with you, gives a warm feeling like having
something you must say; it makes you glow, keeps you com·
pany, helps you to live.
        You are alone. Having a woman to talk to is nothing.
All that counts is the press of body against body. Why, why
are you without that? "You will never have it/' Everything
has its price.
        And the man who has a woman, looks for another.
• . • That's how it goes. As long as you want to be alone,
they come looking for you, but if you hold out your hand,
they ignore it; that, too, is how it goes.

13th February
       You remember people's voices better than their faces.
There is something indicative, spontaneous, about a voice.
Given the face, you do not think of the voice; given the
voice-by no means negligible-you try to envisage the person
and look forward to seeing the face.
I6th February
        Things and people belong to us, that is, they count
with us, only for what they cost us, not what they give us. To
keep a woman tied to us we must exploit her, not devote
ourselves to her.

2oth February
         (Preface to the Dialoghettz"1.). Had it been possible,
we would gladly have done without so much mythology. But
we are convinced that myths are a language, a means of
expression; not arbitrary, but pregnant with symbols that,
like all languages, have a special significance which can be
expressed in no other way. When we introduce a proper name,
an action, some legendary marvel, we are expressing, between
the lines and in a syllable or two, something comprehensive,
1   Dialoghi con Leuco, written in 1946. Ed.
        270
                                                       1946
 all-embracing; the pith and marrow of a reality that will
 vitalize and nourish a whole living structure of passion, a
 complex conception of human existence. And if this name,
 this deed, this marvel is something we have known from
 childhood, from our school days, so much the better. Our
 concern is more real, more incisive, when it is centered on
 something familiar. Here we have contented ourselves with
 Greek myths, in view of the present, very understandable,
 popular vogue for them and their immediate, traditional ac-
 ceptability. We detest anything vague and formless, anom-
 alous, incidental, and we try, even with material things, to
confine ourselves within certain limits, as if in a frame, and
insist on an atmosphere of concentration. We are convinced
that a great revelation can come only from persistently press-
ing on through something difficult, simply because it is diffi-
cult. We have nothing in common with those who flit from
one thing to another, experimenting, seeking adventure. We
know that the surest, quickest way to find amazement is to fix
the mind firmly upon the same object all the time. The mo-
ment will come when that object will seem, miraculously, as
though we had never seen it before.
         Such happiness without adventure probably arises from
the fact that it leaves you open to all adventures. You see
them all around you, but you do nothing to induce them or
let them effect you. What do you do? Simply observe them,
indulge your fancy, and learn. Would it change anything to
find yourself mixed up in them?
         Works of poetry come about in just the same way as
that happiness does. An amazing counterpoise of truths, all
on the verge of being expressed, all rich with infinite possibili-
ties, imminent, inexhaustible. The art of not trying to enjoy,
that is the real art. Poetry is not a sense, but a state; not
understanding, but being.

2 2nd  February
         You have started spending your evenings alone again,
sitting in a corner of the little cinema, smoking, savoring life
and the end of the day, watching the film like a child, for
                                                        271
     This Business of Living
the adventure, the brief pleasure of beauty or an awakened
memory. And you enjoy it, you enjoy it immensely. It will
be the same at seventy, if you live that long.

23rd February
       Something is coming to an end. When you relax and
sit smoking, you find you are troubled and anxious. Are you
afraid of the practical things of life? No. What you fear is
the vacuum within you. This town holds no memories.

24th February
        Alone again. For you, home means the office, the
cinema and your own clenched jaws. In the story of a pas-
sion, the sign that it is over should be the urge to go home
again and be alone.

26th February
      With the others--even with the only one who stands
out-you must always live as though things were beginning at
that moment and would finish in the next.

1st March
         She has always followed her caprices and her own
convenience-making demands, refusing you, holding herself
aloof-but she has been friendly, and now she is gon'e. You
gave her almost everything, lost your sleep, wasted your time
and trouble, thought of death-all because of your great need
-and what else can you do but blame yourself?
         They are fools, those ethnologists who think that all
they need do is to bring together the masses of various races
{no matter what their past and present culture) to ensure
that they will become used to one another, learn understand-
ing and tolerance, grow out of racialism, nationalism and pre-
judice. Collective passions are roused by inevitable self-inter-
ests that are wrapped up in racial or national myths. And
self-interest can never be erased.
     272
                                                     1946

grd March
       Revenge yourself on someone I Act as though you
forgave him, leave him to the vengeances of life. The passing
of time, by itself, without any help from the victim, invari-
ably inflicts terrible sufferings on everyone. And not only
time. Other men will do the same, the very men who led
your enemy to offend· and injure you. Let them be, all of
them. They will avenge you. All the more if your enemy
loves them. Just let them live, all of them. What revenge
would there be if they were not all th~e?

4th March
        The women you love feel about you just as you feel
about one of those women who leave you flat.
        There is no finer revenge than that which others in-
flict on your enemy. Moreover, it has the advantage of leaving
you the role of a generous man.

gth March
      The gods have no feelings. They know what should
happen, and ensure that it does. They are utilitarian.

14th March
        Men do not complain of suffering, but of the over-
ruling power that grips them and makes them suffer.

28th March
       When you wash your hands under a tap, you feel
an impulse to urinate. A good example of sympathetic magic.
One can understand why savages believed that rain-making
rites must include the emission of water or sperm.

2gth March
       Never have I felt so aware of being cornered, finished,
as during these afternoons and evenings. The vacuum within
me is still unlit by a single spark of vitality. Well do I know
                                                      273
    This Business of Living
that I shall go no further, that all I have to say is already
said. The worst of it is that I have already achieved some
success, and so cannot resign myself to total failure. I know
that I shall rise above it and produce more work, but the
break is there, plain to see. Hell!

grst March
       The wisdom of fate is, fundamentally, our own wis-
dom, because it gives us a never-ending awareness of what,
when we get to the root of things, it is permissible for us to
do. Whatever temptations we may have, we make no mistake
about that, ever. We act always with a sense of destiny. The
two things are one.
       A man who makes that mistake does not yet under-
stand his own destiny. That is, he does not understand the
consequences of his own past which determine his future. But
whether he understands it or not, the indication is there, just
the same. Every life is what it has to be.

srd April
        One of them is dark and vibrant, the other icy and
blonde. They make an amazing pair. Anyone would call me
very lucky. One has a lovely figure, the other a keen and lively
mind, but to make anything of them those things should be
changed around. The dark one ought to have the intelligence,
and the blonde should have the figure. Instead, it is not that
way, and so much the better.

4th April
        Every morning, like a stuffy, damp, warm mold of
ourselves, like an astral body, we leave behind our weariness
in our bed.

April 8
        If you are you, I am myself-which means that I do
not care for it.
    274
                                                             1946

lOth April
        Those intellectuals who have broken away from the
P.C. over the question of liberty ought to ask themselves what
     1

they would do with this liberty that they are so concerned
about. Then they would see that-leaving aside apathy, in-
dolence and the hidden self-interests every man has (a life
of leisure, vague thinking and elegant forms of sadism), there
does not exist a single instance to which their own answer
would be any different from the collective one of the P.C.
16th April
       This sense of power, of being equal to anything, does
it come from your earnings or from maturity? If, in fear and
trembling at your vocation, you managed to achieve your
present result, of what things should you now be capable!
You should be ashamed of yourself.

17th April
        What you find distasteful about psychoanalysis is its
evident tendency to transform faults into illnesses. You could
und:!rstand it changing them into virtues, by means of an
access of energy, but no. It discovers that the trouble was
caused, for instance, by being afraid of frogs anq then it ex-
pects to cure it. What rot !
        Let us be clear about it: I have nothing against the
formulae of psychoanalysis--our inner life is all the richer
for them. My quarrel is with those brazen-faced rascals who
use them to excuse their own stupid negligence, who think
that when homosexuals corrupt little boys it is the result of
some past experience they had with corkscrews, and there-
fore excusable. But no ! There is no excuse for upping little
boys.
1The Partito Comunista Italiano. The Italian Communist Party was
originally strongly anti-fascist and composed mainly of intellectuals. Its
motto was f'Giustizia e Liberta," but the party was split by differences
of opinion as to the meaning of "Justice" and "Liberty." Ed.

                                                               275
     This Business of Living

25th April
        Every evening, after you have finished at the office,
had your visit to the local, and your companions have all gone
home, there comes that fierce joy, the warm glow of being
alone again. It is the one really good thing that happens every
day.
        You discover that every little corner of nature has an
order of its own, its own range of contacts. For instance, the
flowers of a particular region all have colors of the same
tone. Ter. suggests that this may be due to a special quality
of light and humidity in that place. True. Nothing can inter-
fere with providence. The interplay of natural laws suffices.
        Ter. is the usual aftermath of your bouts of passion.
They rage high, she is little; they are stern and hard, she is
sweet and gay; they are very involved and difficult, she is
frank and friendly; they are your enemies, she is a good
companion. When passion has left her exhausted, her re,-
covery is natural, wistful. Like all her predecessors. Will she
end like them?

4th May
        Writing is a fine thing, because it combines the two
pleasures of talking to yourself and talking to a crowd.
        If you were able to write without making any alter-
ation, without revising, without repolishing, would your pleas-
ure be increased? The ideal method is to polish yourself;
calmly and quietly to set about making yourself into a crystal.

sth Ma,y
         What can life be like for such people? A little gaiety,
a little laughter, a foolish medley of clothes and chatter. Is
yours any better?

8th May
        I had already discovered Rome and realized its sig-
nificance in my life during June and July, '43· Note the close
     276
                                                             1946
connection between the lectures (on ethnology) I had at-
tended for more than a year, and the fact of Rome. Why
did I come here, and was it by chance?
         And now, with the whole mythical~ethnological world
matured in my mind, I come back to Rome, invent a new
style for the Dialoghi and write them.

23rd May
        I have met a really exceptional woman-S.A. 1 I was
not in the least embarrassed. I understand her perfectly. I am
better off than she is, not only because I am younger, but in
all essentials. I know what form is, she does not. Yet she
was the flower of Turin, Igoo~'Io. She moves me like a
souvenir. In her I see Thovez, Cena, Gozzano, Gobetti; she
is Nietzsche, Ibsen, lyric poetry. There are the hesitations, the
muddled thinking of my adolescence (How long ago ! ) . There
is the confusion of art and life that is adolescence, error.
D' Annunzionism; now all vanquished and in the past.

24th May
        You cannot bear any sudden, unexpected alteration in
your day, an extra guest for lunch/1 an unforeseen journey,
etc. Doesn't that bear out your craze for making a whole
scheme for a· novel depend on some discovery you have made,
as in M ari del Sud, Le Streghe, etc?

31st May
         On my way from Rome to Piedmont I noticed many
things. The trees of this part of the country and their grouping
 (alders, oak trees, ash and willow, great rows of vines, rising
from the level ground like the wings bordering a stage), are
those of Virgil and other classical writers I studied at college.
I saw that in Piedmont it is not so much the individual tree
that strikes one's eye as the all~over greenness, the sea of vege-
1 Sibilla Aleramo, with whom Pavese corresponded on literary .subjects
for several months. Ed.
2 At this time, Pavese wa.s living with his sister Maria, her husband and
two children. Ed.

                                                              277
    This Business of Living
tation. Strange, for the trees of the classics were certainly
those of Rome, while I, instead, have seen them in Piedmont
and nowhere else. That may be because I was reading in
Piedmont.
        I noted the abstract shapes of the long, high city
streets; smelt, this morning, the fragrance of the red wine
of Piedmont that perfumes everything. Here there is nothing
of the dryness or the sharply defined colors of Rome.

grd June
       The charm of traveling is enjoying innumerable glori-
ous scenes, knowing that we could make any one of them
our own, and passing on to the next like some great lord.

18th June
       It is ridiculous to look for altruism in a passion com-
posed wholly of pride and voluptuousness.

Igth June
       I begin to write poetry when the game is lost, but a
poem has never been known to change things.

23rd June
        I am in the state of atrophy that usually follows the
end of a passion--out of sorts, exhausted, temperamental. But
this time it was not passion, and I see all the more plainly
how indolent=-voluptuous was my abandonment to it. The
clear law of my myth. As a conclusion to my life in Rome I
could not imagine anything more appropriate.
        When I have to leave a city, that city begins to stink.
I am lucky.

24th June
       All the amorous satisfaction he gets is the smirk of
mockery that every woman gives him, the only sort of smile
that comes his way.
    278
                                                       1946

27th June
        To have written something that leaves you emptied of
your vital powers, still quivering and hot like a gun that
has just been fired; to have poured out not only all you knew
was in you, but all that you suspected and imagined, the
turmoil, the shadowy visions, the subconscious; to have
achieved that with long weariness and tension, learning cau-
tion through days of hesitation, sudden discoveries and lapses,
concentrating all your life and energy on that one point; and
then to realize that all this is as nothing unless it is welcomed
by some sign, some word of human appreciation. To lack that
warming response is to die of cold, to be speaking in the
wilderness, to be alone, night and day, like a dead man.

2nd July
        All you need do is to tell lies, exaggerate, embroider the
facts a little, and the results are surprising. You can see the
girl hesitate and grow submissive. What more can you ask?
The carnal game cannot avoid lies and evasions.

sth July
       Having regained their liberty, the liberals no longer
know what to do with it.

7th July
          Dissolute and worried, therefore grave and stern,
"Mino" says.... He does not know how right he is. Why does
his wife rub against me and then go off with him? Obvious,
isn't it?
          Why does T. look at me with clouded, unseeing eyes?
She is afraid that I may close them. Was any parting ever
as sad, as well-deserved?
                                    (The end of Rome).
I 3th July (Milan and Serralunga)

         What moves you when you gaze down upon an ex-
tensive view-for example, a broad plain with its hillocks and
                                                        279
     This Business of Living
dells, seen from a height-is the realization that those stretches
of farm land, all the same dull color, those little clouds, those
distant, hazy patches, even the blue horizon, are so many real
objects in a definite, individual countryside. How rich it is,
this prospect stretching away into the distance, composed of
things that are real and perfect l

xgth July
       Your conviction that this girl is sensual in the extreme
and thinks of nothing but love-provided at present by her
Lesbian friend who knows it all-does it not suddenly fill
your heart with regret, disappointment, a sense of failure?
She had you in her arms and did not want you. Or was it
that you did not take her? The old story.

21st July
       (Rereading Fraser.) What did you find in this book
in 1933? That the grape, the corn, the harvest and the sheaf
were full of drama and to speak of them in words was to
verge upon profound significances that involve our blood,
the animal world, the eternal past, the unconscious mind. The
beast that strayed into the corn was the spirit. For you it
merged ancestry and childhood, your recollections of things
that puzzled and alarmed you in the country took on a sense
of uniqueness, of something unfathomable.

3rd August
        A mythical event that happened once and for all may
express a recurring cosmic truth-the Rape of Proserpine,
for example. In the same way one can express in art an oft-
repeated experience of a countryside, an action, an event.
How many times had you seen the hill of Quarti and Coniolo
before you expressed it?

18th August
       Lessons are not given, they are taken.
     280
                                                    1946

19th August
        Whenever you are seized by the thrill of mythology,
you have in mind the tree trunks, the river, the hill with the
moon behind it, the highroad, the scent of field and meadow
of your own homeland. Why?
21st August
        The ancients liked to locate a god in exotic, far-off
places, to give them titles that denoted his presence, or call
him by a name that linked him with those distant places;
which is as good as saying that the ancients were literary men,
too.
gth September
       Think the worst. You will not be wrong. Women are
an enemy race, like the Germans.
       We have pity for all the world, except for those who
are bored. Yet boredom is considered a maximum penalty
provided by law-prison.
Isth September
        Waiting is still an occupation. It is having nothing to
wait for that is terrible.
I6th September
        There is only one pleasure-that of being alive. All
the rest is misery.
27th September
        For a man who knows how to write, a new style is
always irresistible. He runs the risk of talking nonsense and
saying it badly, but he cannot resist the style, the tempting
form waiting to be imbued with his own words. (I mean, for
instance, the style of my little mythical dialogues. )
29th September (At Turin)
       Realism in art is Greek; allegory is Hebraic.
                                                       281
    This Business of Living

5th October
        It can be taken as true that war restores the world by
creating it afresh, which stems from the fact that in time
of war one learns to live hoping for the morrow and enjoying
the present, not storing up days like a miser. We live, that is,
like children, and that, in general, is the cure for every ill.
        In a thickly planted vineyard the serried ranks of vege-
tation-green, russet, yellow, are like the waves of an ocean,
ccntaining in their depths all the richness of the sea-freshness,
amazement, hidden treasures.

26th October
       I am well into a novel. Piv. was married this morning.
I have a cold. Good.

27th October
       What happens once, happens repeatedly. Unless some
outside influence intervenes. But then the effect will be to
produce a negative.
           (A certain man will always act in a particular way.
           If he becomes paralyzed, he can no longer do so.
           But he will not act in a different way; he will do
           nothing.)
        I know by now that these entries in my diary are not
important for any specific discovery made in them, but for
the insight they give into the way I unconsciously live. What
I say may not be true, but the fact that I say it betrays my
inner being.

31st October
        In the Dialoghetti, the mortals sigh for divine attri-
butes, and the gods for human qualities. The multiplicity of
gods does not affect the issue. The work is a conversation
between divinity and humanity.
     281
                                                          1946

5th November
      Allegory is any symbol viewed through the intelligence.

16th November
        Last spring, Pintar's uncle came to Rome, and showed
me a few lines about me he had copied from Gaime's1 diary:
"July, '42: P. is the best young fellow in Turin, quiet and
sincere." ... "The gendemen there are rather ladylike."
        Why have conferences? Newspapers and books are
accessible to all, even to the outcast. Inside conference halls,
a man has plenty of opportunity to play to the gallery or pose
as a live wire, which "go-getters" find very pleasing. As for
the fact that conferences provide a convenient method for
distributing the bread of science, the answer is that nothing
of any cultural value ever comes out of a conference; all that
one hears there, if it is to bear fruit, must still be sought in
books. And then? All that remains is that they are a school
for superficiality and personal success. A fellow who is not
disposed to raise his hat to culture, to undertake a lot of hard
work, to act as though he were entering a shrine (for so it
seems at first, later it gets into your very blood), remains
unnoticed. He deserves it.
        If it is true that religion and magic, by rendering
objective such subconscious complexes as demons, spirits and
the dead, liberated primitive man and left a free field for the
ego to develop, the same thing will happen with all experi-
ence. Anything with which we experiment-love, adventure,
risk-becomes objective and so leaves us free.

26th November
        When a woman smells of sperm and it is not mine, I
don't like it.
1 Gaime Pintor, a young contemporary writer, was a close friend of
Pavese, sharing his admiration for books and for freedom of thought.
Pintor became a leader of the Resistance movement and was killed while
fighting with the guerillas in (?] 1943· Ed.
                                                            283
    This Business of Living

I7th December
      In Crete, the cypress was sacred to Artemis; Taygetus
and Erymanthus to Artemis, Cyllene to Hermes.

27th December
         A woman, with other men, is . either in earnest or
fooling. If she is in earnest, she belongs to that other man,
and that is that. H she is fooling, she is a cow, and that, too,
is that.




1947
1st January
        At the end of '38 I was hard-pressed and working at
full stretch; when '46 began, I was contemptuous, rich and
rather bitter. This time it is different-! am hard-pressed and
rich (Dialog hi con Leuco, Compagno), but I feel a driving
power that throbs louder than the voice of my work and
predicts, not fresh works, but sordid realities. (Written in the
Cafe Rampone, the skyscraper in the Via Viotti, where in
1932 I had the idea for Ciao Masino.)

26th January
        There are only two attitudes to life, the Christian's
and the Stoic's. Probably the Communist's is a fusion of both.
He has charity and a sense of stem reality; he knows the world
is hard, yet he does good.

srd February
        You talk and talk and talk. It is because you have been
silent for so long. Does it dismay you to think that one day
no one will still listen to you? No.
        We only forget what was already forgotten when it
     284
                                                      1947
happened. You don't remember anything except your closed
inner worlds.
         A man, a woman, a boy.
         For me the hill-mountain is the Taygetus, which I
discovered at fifteen in Catullus, and the Erymanthus, the
Cyllene, the Pelion, discovered in Virgil etc., as I stood look-
ing' at the hills of Reaglie and remembering the fiery hills of
S. Stefano, Moncucco, Camo, S. Maurizio, Luassolo.

24th February
        Cronus was a monstrous figure, but he reigned in the
Golden Ages. He was defeated and Hades was born, together
with the Blessed Isle and Olympus, unhappiness and happi-
ness, opposed and institutional.
        The monstrous and golden era of Titans was the age
of undifferentiated men-monster-gods. You have always con-
sidered reality as a titanic idea, or rather as a human-divine
Chaos ( = monstrous), which is the perennial form of life.
You present the gods, who were Olympian, superior, happy
and remote beings as the spoil-sports of humanity, to which
the Olympians granted favors under the spur of their titanic
nostalgia, of their pity rooted in time. (For the Dialogues.)

4th March
        To me, a friend no longer means fellowship, a way of
living, but a pastime, an alternative to the cinema. Why?
I no longer believe that work can be shared. I work alone
and then I seek distraction. In the days when I believed in
friends, I did no work.

5th March
        It is night, as usual, and you are glad that in a moment
you will go to bed, disappear. Then, an instant later, it will
be morning and you will again begin discovering amazing
things. It is fine to go to sleep, because you will wake up.
It is the quickest way to make the morning come.
                                                       285
    This Business of Living

gth March
         On the Salino road: Today you saw that great hill
with its hollows, its clump of trees, the brown, the blue, the
houses, and you said: "It is as it is, as it should be. That is
enough for you. It is a place that never changes. Why look
for any other? Dwell among these things, let them enfold
you, live on them, like air, like a trail of clouds. No one knows
that everything is here."
         It is logical for unbelievers to want a secular govern-
ment. To them it is a conquest, a step forward. For Christians,
it is absurd. Priests, prelates, the Pope must concern them-
selves with politics. Dante could separate the spheres of pope
and emperor because it was understood that the emperor's
politics would be Christian.

1oth March
        You had almost forgotten the tranquil moon above the
empty streets. Every year, the beauties of nature reveal them-
selves anew, and the emotion t:1ey evoke is always: "You had
almost forgotten ...."
        The difficulty of art is to present things you know well
in such a way that they are surprising. If you did not know
them well, you would not be sufficiently interested in them
to treat them in a way that makes them surprising.
        The delight of art: perceiving that one's own way of
life can determine a method of expression.

12th March
       One thing is to say that Olympus was patterned upon
the Greek civic institutions, and another that the institutions
were fashioned along the lines of Olympus.

14th March
        Hemingway is the Stendhal of our time.
     286
                                                        1947

15th March
         Things I write here are what I shall no longer talk
about; they are the shavings thrown off by the plane as it
shapes the day's work. Here, so to speak, is a quick way of
cutting through the preliminaries, the framework, the inci-
dental odds and ends; clearing the ground so that the main
construction to come can be plainly seen.
         You have maintained that the form, the style, the page
itself, are realities in their own right, distinct from the reality
you have lived through and wish to express. That is a com-
monplace. But they are a new dimension. This is not to say
that you express nothing, by writing, but that you create
another reality, the written word.
         All Jews, all such men, act as though nothing had
happened. They talk of their troubles, problems and the world
itself in a tone that makes light of them. I should like to see
them proclaim that they amount to something, that they
matter as much as anyone else, that they have a word to say
in things. They have, and they do not say it.

17th March
        When a work is finished one seeks to improve its form,
not its substance; the style, not the sentiments; the symbol,
not the thing symbolized. Where fatigue shows is in the style,
the form, the symbol. As for the sentiments it contains, one
always has those in abundance, from the very fact of being
alive.

19th March
        Stendhal-Hemingway. Their stories are not about
society, the world in general; they do not give the impression
of p<1rtraying a vast reality and interpreting it in their own
way, as Balzac does, and Tolstoi, among others. They have
a constant pattern of human tension being resolved in situa-
tions created by blending sensations with environment, ex-
                                                         287
      This Business of Living
pressed with absolute directness. They would not know how
to present other subjects, as the following writers would, but
upon that constant pattern they have built a whole ideology,
which is, after all, their function as storytellers: forceful,
clear and non-literary.
        Flaubert chose a certain setting; they do not.
        Dostoievsky constructed a dialectic world; they do not.
        Faulkner stylizes atmospheres, deals in legends; they
do not.
        Lawrence sought out a cosmic sphere and interpreted
it; they do not. They are typical storytellers in the first person.

22nd March
         The character is a theatrical conception, not specifically
narrative. Characters are not essential in a story. The greatest
Greek story-teller is Herodotus, not Homer-who is, rather,
a pre-literary dramatist.
         The nineteenth century aspired to create drama, but
did not achieve it. Instead, it created the great novel which,
because of its characters, was theatrical. Nowadays we tend
to interest ourselves afresh in pure narration. We do not even
bother to create characters--that is a commonplace job,
anyone can do it. What we seek lies in the sense of rhythm,
the feeling that reality itself is disturbed-as in Herodotus.
Currently we are more concerned with creating symbols; we
are intellectualists. Not the Iliad, but Herodotus.
         The epic is drama as yet unaware of the technical
means, the theatre, the stage.
         This is why Moby Dick is a revelation of our epoch;
it is not a tale of characters, it is pure rhythm. The man who
tells it now is not the one who "knew human nature," and
discovered profoundly significant psychological truths, but
one who deals with reality en bloc, whose harsh experiences
give rhythm, cadences, embellishments to his story. Heming-
way has violent death; Levi, prison; Conrad, the mysteries
of the Southern Seas; Joyce, the stereoscope of word-sensa-
tions; Proust, the impossibility of seizing fleeting moments;
     288
                                                         1947
Kafka, the cipher of absurdity; Mann, the mythical reassess-
ment of facts. (I apologize for having included Levi.) 1

28th March
        Here is a confirmation of I 7th March. I have a wealth
of sentiments as starting points for the Dialoghetti, but I am
blocked because I lack a satisfactory method of introducing
them. I want a new pair of speakers, different from the t:~Sual
hackneyed ones.

2nd April
       The gods know and see, thanks to their magic-rational
nature, and with detachment. Men act, not magically, with
pain. They give names, that is to say that they solve their
problems in creative terms.

5th April
          While resistance was undercover, all was hope: now
all is a prospective of disaster.

12th  April
         To have the impression that every good thing that
happens to you is a fortunate mistake, a stroke of luck, an
undeserved favor, is not due to a noble mind, humility and
detachment. It is born of long servitude, of the acceptance of
oppression and dictatorship. You have the soul of a slave, not
a saint.
         When you were twenty and your first friends left you,
you felt you were suffering nobly. That was an illusion. What
pained you was having to break pleasant habits. And you do
just the same now.
         You are alone, and you know it. You were born to
live under the wings of someone who would sustain and
justify you, someone kind enough to let you play the fool and
imagine yourself capable of remaking the world singlehanded.
1Carlo Levi, Pavese's friend and contemporary, who became a colleague
of his on the editorial staff of the Casa Einaudi. Ed.

                                                           289
     This Business of Living
You never found anyone who could endure so much; hence
your suffering when friends depart, not because of any tender-
ness for them; hence your resentment towards the one who
has gone; hence your facility for finding a new ally-not out
of cordiality. You are a woman, and like a woman you are
obstinate. But ~one you are not enough, and you know it.

12th May
        The greatest benefit that a writer brings to poetry, to
literature, is that part of his life which, while living it, seemed
to him the furthest removed from literature. His days, his
habits, incidents that seemed to him not only a waste of time
but a vice, a sin, a downfall. Such things enriched his life.
Look at the childhood period in every biography.

13th May
       The innocent, honest citizen, the man who "had
nothing to do with it'' but yet was the victim of a tragic
mistake during the civil war, becomes less and less interesting,
almost comic. In our day, no one, in reality, "has nothing to
do with it."

27th May
        The entrance to Hades. A road encased in volcanic
rock, and covered by alder trees and elms; the road is green,
transparent and dark, and it emerges in the sun at the gate
of Sovana. The Etruscan world is beyond Hades, its chthonic.
Standing here one suddenly knows what is meant by the
word "underground"; it means dug into the volcanic rock.
        One also finds out what they meant when they said
that Hesperia was the land of the dead. The two faces of a
country before history passed over it and afterward resemble
each other. They are nature. "Nature" is the kingdom of the
dead.
        If you find someone objectionable, put up with him.
In a little while-without fail-something out of the ordinary,
     290
                                                       1947
some truth, will emerge. Even if you are bored by his banality,
his insincerity. Indeed, all the more because of that.
        This woman with a mustache, who says such "suffi-
cient" things ( "Sampierdarena which now is part of Genoa,"
"Don't speak to me about Naples," "I cannot tell you, you
know, what effect asparagus have on me" etc.) is now ex-
plaining that asparagus should be cooked with the tips sticking
out of the water, so as to steam them and preserve their
flavor. She says that Cinotti (in the Via XX Settembre) is
the best restaurant in Genoa. She has eaten fish soup in
Naples on a barge. She is despicable, but full of things.
         ("I had a girl friend who now plays an instrument.")
         ("During the war I did not suffer. Oh no, I didn't
suffer. I would have a salad, perhaps, but under the salad
there was a steak." "At Ranieri's in Via delle Carrozze, I
found a waiter whom I had met in Chianciano. He looked
after me.")

2nd June
        The crowd, when viewed as a human hotbed pro-
ducing what you live on, restores your serenity and gives you
fresh heart.
        There are holy men, energetic priests, who have a
childlike assumption of their own power. But not all that
childlike: they know how to use and exploit it.
        The intolerance shown by the male writer in his letters
and diaries, in his gestures, and his need to listen anonymously
to his own work, derive from his necessity to find something
that is absolute, a point of comparison, an operative reality.
These are the premises of his classicality.

4th June
        However keen may be the pleasure of being with
friends, or with anyone, a greater pleasure is going away after-
wards and being alone. Life and death.
        After all, he is a fine fellow, G .... He really does like
                                                         291
       This Business of Living
company. He has the tremendous handicap of old-fashioned
tastes and does not realize it. But are you sure that your
grudge against him is not merely because he let you pick up
the check? "This will ruin me," he said, "rm no good. Lord,
let me put off paying as long as possible."

23rd June (Turin)
        A meeting of the Party has all the characteristics of a
religious rite. We listen to be assured of what we already
think, to be exalted by our common faith and confession.

Ist July
        What is the real reason why we want to be big, to be
creative geniuses? For posterity? No. To be pointed out when
we stroll in crowded places? No. To carry on with our daily
toil under the conviction that whatever we do is worth the
trouble, is something unique. For the day, not for eternity.

lOth   July
        Today you looked for a long time at the hill beyond
the Po, and noted that it is all parks, villas, streets you have
walked through again and again. Why that sense of something
savage about it, which even now fills you with awe? What
was savage has now been reduced to a familiar, civilized
place. "Savage,'' as such, has no basic reality. It is that things
were so, in that they were inhuman. But things, in so far as
they interest you, are human.
        Note that Paesi tuoi and Dialoghi con Leuco are the
fruit of your yearning for "savage" things-the country, the
titans. In this vein, can one hope to go further than The Call
of the Forest~ which, in any case you find rather boring?
        All the art of the nineteenth century is a harping on
"the savage." First as a subject (Kipling, D'Annunzio and
so on), then as form (Joyce, Picasso). Leopardi, in the poetic
illusions of his youth, was fascinated by "the savage" from a
psychological angle. Anderson, in his own way, touched upon
       292
                                                      1947
it in the natural surroundings of life in the Middle West.
Everything that struck you, creatively, in your reading, had
this same atmosphere. (Nietzsche and his Dionysius.... )
        Having discovered ethnology, you reached the stage of
relating "the savage" to history. The city-country of your first
books has become Olympus and the Titans in your latest.-
You sigh for the country, for "the sav~ge," but you appre-
ciate the good sense, the moderation, the clear understanding
of people like Berto, Pablo, the man in the street. "The
savage" appeals to you as something mysterious, not as his-
torical brutality. Tales of partisans or terrorists do not please
you. They are too explicit. "Savage" means mysterious, open
to any possibility.
        Your idea ( 2srd-2 6th August, '44) that "savage"
means "superstitious," something no longer acceptable mor-
ally, while a simple mischance is natural (even the cruelty of
nature seems acceptable), is still the burden of your song,
with the "savage," the titans, the brutal and reactionary,
replaced by the citizen, the Olympian, the progressive. ( Cf.
Paesi tuoi, Dialoghi con Leuco, Compagno.) You preach
order by describing disorder.

21St July
         We like to have work to do, so as to have the right
to rest.

26th July
         From Nilsson, The Minoan Mycenean etc.
         p. 279: "Earth is on the one hand the resting place
of the dead who are buried in its entrails, on the other the
provider of fertility. The Hyksos divinities appear in the
double aspect of masters of death and of fertility.
         "I have often expressed my doubts about the general
validity of this hypothetical system, especially when it is
further developed to the extent of opposing the Hyksos divini-
ties to the Olympian gods."
                                                        293
    This Business of Living

28th July
        Ditto, p. 413: "In ancient times the reason for build-
ing a temple on a particular site was that the site itself was
already sacred. Its sacred character was inherent in the place,
and it derived especially from cult."
        Apollo is the sender of all evils. Cf. "Fiore e Cavallo"
where he appears in such a guise and only in such a guise.
        The Dialoghetti preserve the elements, the gestures,
the attributes, the knots of myth, but they abolish its cultural
reality which springs from a long tale of graftings, copying,
derivations etc. (which makes them understandable) . The
social background (which made them acceptable to the
ancient) is also abolished. What remains is the problem, and
this your fantasy is solving.

4th August
        From Harrison, Prolegomena etc. p. 650.
        The Olympians are equally indifferent to Before and
Afterwards; they are neither the source nor the end of life.
Furthermore, and within the strictest limitations, they are
~'human., They are not at one with the lives of animals,
streams and woods, and men. Eros, "whose feet rest upon
flowers," who "sleeps in the folds," belongs to life as a whole;
he is Dionysus, he is Pan. Under the influence of Athens,
Eros becomes enveloped into a purely human form, but the
"Fanes" (?) of Orpheus was polymorphous, a mysterious
beast~god."
         (Without being conscious of it, you have applied this
idea to the Dialoghetti, where you argue against the Olym-
pian world and take sides with the world of Titans and
beasts.)

6th August
        The surrealist idea (Herb. Read) that images and
inspirations are perhaps captured telepathic messages-and
all the theory of dream-poetry, and of automatism-tends to
    294
                                                       1947
uproot writing from the rich, well-planted natural and social
soil where it has meaning for all of existence and to throw it
into an exclusive heaven of illuminations and discovery that,
by themselves, are only games--as a case of telepathy is a
theatrical act and not a human issue.
        The interest of a work for the man who has written
it-and for the man who understands it-is to see it shaping
itself amid opposing tendencies, clarifying them, merging
them, giving them form and meaning. The greatest conflict
is between the unconscious and the conscious (social or ethical
requirements, the need for communication) . A work produced
wholly unconsciously, automatically, is uninspiring, or a mere
joke.

1oth August (Forte dei Manni)
        The problems that agitate one generation are ex-
tinguished for the next, not because they have been solved but
because the general lack of interest sweeps them away.
        These mountains should be Greek. From the sea you
view the first of them, dark, wooded, russet-green. Behind
them, far away against the sky, you see the airy, spectral
outlines of those that are all rock, pale and light. Their super-
natural whiteness comes from veins of marble. They look wild
and "savage/' but full of form and rhythm, harsh, austere,
mythical: Greek.

16th August (At Forte dei Marmi)
         Autumn, this most mild, peaceful and tender of
seasons, takes over from the previous one and then establishes
itself with fearful quakings, tremendous storms, darkness at
morning, whirlwinds and a massacre of leaves. All this vio-
lence is.the price of maturity.

18th August
        A work settles nothing, just as the labor of a whole
generation settles nothing. Sons, and the morrow, always start
afresh, light-heartedly ignoring their fathers and what has
                                                       295
     This Business of Living
already been done. Even hatred, a revolt against the past, is
more tolerable than this bland indifference. The virtue of
the ancients lay in their constitution, which always looked back
to the past. This is the secret of their inexhaustible complete-
ness. Because the richness of a work-of a generation-is
always determined by how much of the past it contains.

25th August
      The first great manifestation of literature and also the
examples that founded it are linked with the myth of the
Golden Age, of an ivory tower (in Virgil's Arcadia).

26th August
        To say that the same things always happen to each
one of us is not to make a deterministic statement. On the
contrary, if these things happen it means that the subject,
far from being determined by a. natural necessity, brings to
every encounter his own constancy, his nature, his personality,
his essence etc., and these are the elements which chose the
encounters and made them all resemble one another. The
human Ego plays a part in them, but the encounters are free.

7th November
        The Compagno and Leuco are published, the works
of '46, your thirty-eighth year. More than ever, you want to
write. Less badly.
        This tranquil love affair, without complications, is
your biggest problem. It is in your very blood, more than the
others. Is that true? Who knows?

8th November
       I hold that to give oneself up, absolutely, trustfully, to
humility, to grace, to God, has the defect of being an act
of presumption, conceit, unjustified hope. A convenient
hypothesis.
       They reply: every man is like that. He falls in the
     296
                                                     1947
street and stretches out his hand for help; he feels he is dying
and trusts himself to anyone. Genuine experience drives him
to total surrender and to hope. When we are lost, we hope.
        I answer: that is no proof that the thing hoped for is
real, actual.
        They reply that I must accept my instinctive gesture.
I cannot be mistaken. There can no longer be any question
of a mistake, for in that way everything is vouchsafed to me,
even faith.
        I answer that in that case . . . they reply . . • I
answer....

I Ith November
        If the woman you are awaiting does not turn up,
never seeks you out again, stays away, her bravado would have
the pointless effect of making you miss her and regret her
absence. You, who are so fond of making others miss you,
learn how futile this can be.
       The Casa in collina may be the experience that has
culminated in Ritorno all'uomo.

21st November
       To know that someone is waiting for you, someone
who may ask you to account for your actions, your thoughts, ·
follow you with their eyes, hoping for a word from you-all
that depresses you, embarrasses you, offends you.
       The believer's idea is sound, even in carnal matters.
He knows that someone is awaiting him-his God. You are a
bachelor-you do not believe in God.

7th December
        So many alarming things have been said and written
about our life, our world, our culture, that to see the sun,
the clouds, to go out into the street and find grass, dogs,
pebbles, moves you like some great boon, like a gift from
God, like a dream. But a real dream that endures, that actually
exists.
                                                       297
     This Business of Living

 I Ith December
         The Latins said "mothers," referring to Bacchantes.
 Is that not strange. Not if you realize that a Baechle orgy was
an initiation rite of a matriarchal period.
         " ... the hunting, the fighting, or what not, the thing
 done, is never religious; the thing redone with heightened
emotion is on the way to become so. The element of action
redone, imitated ... is, I think, essential.... Not the attempt
to deceive, but a desire to relive, to re~present" (Harrison,
Themis, p. 43).
         Does not that correspond with your view of myths,
your "seeing for the second time?" This simulation is the
secret of poetry. To re-present "the thing done," the hunt,
the battle, is not that narration? To represent it before it
happens, to make it happen (magic), what is that but
prophecy? Here is poetry, magic and ritual, religion.
         The charm of Greek myths stems from the fact that
viewpoints which were originally magic, totemistic, matri-
archal, inaugural, were, by the active elaboration of conscious
thought that developed during the tenth to the eighth cen-
turies B.C., reinterpreted, distorted, corrupted,, merged by
'the light of reason, and so they came down to us enriched by
all this lucidity and tension of the spirit, but still bearing the
marks of their ancient, savage symbolism.

20th December
        That ritual always precedes myth and dogma is the
great law of spiritual things. If for "ritual" we say "life," and
for "myth and dogma," "poetry and philosophy/' it becomes
clear. The rite of the love feast and the eucharist preceded the
gospels and determined their form.

28th December
       The Greek myth teaches that we are always fighting
against a part of ourselves, the part we have outstripped,
Zeus against Typhon, Apollo against the Python. Conversely,
     298
                                                     1948
what we are fighting is still part of ourselves, our former
selves. Above all, we fight in order not to be something, to
free ourselves. The man who feels no great repugnance, does
not fight.




 xst January
        A romantic morning, with sunshine over land and
water, sparkling, vibrant, full of warmth. Such a New Year's
Day has never been seen. Will the coming year be one to
dread?
        At three o'clock, an operation that will bring me peace
again. In '4 7 I have written nothing (a dialogue or so and
the start of a novel). Nothing achieved. Two books have been
published. I have been in Rome and at the sea, always active,
always on edge. Fear or irritation?
        But what a day, today! It does not seem like Turin.
It is a winter even stranger than that of '43-'44· When you
came off the train this morning it seemed like a new town to
walk around in, look at, live in. A seaside town, with the sun
shining on the upper stories of houses and palaces, and on the
open hills.

Ioth January
        Your need to ensure to your words their spoken lin-
earity, their legitimacy of expression, their materiality, is
caused by your conviction that art is an exploitation of ones
material means (sounds, marble, colors etc. ) , in order to
extract an expression from them without violating their
materiality. Language is subject to a syntax, to a grammatical
coherence, in sum to a tradition-just like sounds are governed
by mathematical rules, stones by the law of gravity and colors
by chromatic relationships. That is why you instinctively
rejected the free verse of futurism.
                                                     299
     This Business of Living
       The unconscious as an end to itself, obscurity of form
and the use of allusions in order to create sudden enlighten-
ment, in what do these differ from the old rules of art con-
ceived as an imitation of Nature? Here conscience is made
to conform to the object.•••
        (On reading L. Rusu, Essai sur la creation artistique1
Alcan 1935, P· 307.)

I 2th January
        If a little operation makes one suffer so. . . .
        Why is it that when you are able to write about God
and the desperate joy of that December evening in Treviso, you
feel surprised and happy like a person who has just come to a
new town? (Today, a page of Chapter XV of the Collina.)

16th January
         The Greeks recitation, the Romans, literature (cf.
Berard and Snell). See, too, your note on 22nd March, '47·
The Greeks were narrators only in their historians (Herodotus,
Thucydides) and even Herodotus composed his works to be
read aloud. Homer was declaimed, the lyrics were sung, the
tragedies performed, the speeches delivered, the philosophy
discussed. Always voice and gesture.
         Narration, which is a matter of spreading oneself over
the page, mixed up with things and events, was invented by
the Romans with poems, romances, histories, although with
them, too, the conception of oratory persisted-in history, for
instance. The celebrated naturalness of the Greeks stemmed
from their use of a spoken language, in the true sense of the
word. One cannot speak in an unnatural way; anything that
jarred would be perceived at once with an actor, a flesh~and~
blood speaker. Literary language, a composition, is created
only after the matter has been filtered, dehumanized, de~
personalized, on the written page.
         The present day tendency to tell a story in the first
person is an unconscious impulse towards naturalism, while
still wishing one's self to remain on the page; an account, not
a portrayal in action. It is a way of reverting to unsophis-
        300
                                              1948
tication, the only approved method now that the theatre,
with us, is too academic in tone.

19th January
        Not a good day. Wasted. Met various dull people,
exhausting, useless. Serious situations not mentioned, stupid.
Nothing invented, nothing done. Yet I saw plenty of people:
Natalia, Balbo, Maria Livia, Piero, the existential novelist,
Simone and others. The evening papers are threatening.
That's all, or so it seems. Bought a new pen.
        Like certain days in '46. Thinking of them again, you
find them good. Reading over what you wrote then, you
realize how down-to-earth you were. In retrospect you par-
ticularly enjoy the periods that, while you were living them,
seemed intolerable. Nothing is lost. All the difficulties, the
reservations and aversions, the anguish, gain a richness when
remembered. Life is greater, fuller, than we knew.

2oth January
        Today, acclamation. They implore me to write, beg
for my autograph. If you had known this when you were
twenty! Does it mean anything to you now? I am sad, useless,
like a god.

21st January
        Young . . • , with his hard-set, intense face, is not a
pleasant specimen. Rather alarming. He says nothing about
the things he has done, but allows them to be discussed while
he puts on an air of supreme importance. He is obstinate,
wrapped up in himself, observant and fanatical. One cannot
chat with him; even his jokes are serious, with unexpected
undercurrents. "He has a superiority complex," says Calvino,
and he is right, for there is in him, too, a stiffness, an air of
boredom. An unpleasant man.

25th January
        It is not that things happen to each of us according to
his fate, but that he interprets what has happened, if he
                                                       301
     This Business of Living
has the power to do so, according to his sense of his own
destiny.
         There are, in Turin, streets and avenues where people
whom the war has beaten down and destroyed, live and stroll
about. Contented, intelligent people, who once counted for
something, whom you hardly recognize. A whole society of
them. What good has their existence achieved?

goth January
          A night of stars, rare and clear-cut. Seen through the
branches of the trees they look like precious stones, buds, the
first of the year.
          (12th October, '43-25th July, '44-15th March, '45
-18th April, '45: what can one do with these five fragments?
Nothing. Could each one of them be perfect? Yes. The effect
produced by what is rare.)

4th February
         On Monday the 2nd I stopped, just for fun. It does
not seem difficult.
         Falqui is a good fighter. His column "Laboratorio" in
Fiera Letteraria is always written with great intelligence. His
idea of comparing Didimo's prose with Leopardi's, and then
contrasting it with the style of the romantics who wrote in
dialect is an excellent one.

5th February
        My growing dislike of N. comes from the fact that she
takes for granted, with a spontaneity that, itself, is "granted,"
too many things of nature and life. She always carries her
heart in her hand-her muscular heart-talking of child-
birth, her periods, her coming old age. Since B. discovered
that she is open-hearted and primitive, there's no living with
her.
        In religion, one looks not to life but to death, because
the things of life gain their value by being viewed in relation
to eternity, above and beyond death.
     302
                                                      1948

1oth February
        Tuesday. A feverish cold. Two days ago I started
smoking again, and felt the same terrible, unbearable irritation.
Stop it! Stop it! The same game as when I was twenty, when
a cigarette stifled me and I had to put it aside. Shall I find
any way round it?

13th February
        "A philosophy cleansed of all speculative aroma and
reduced to pure history, or historicity, or pure humanism"
 (philosophy of Praxis, Gramsci). Does this not resemble the
poetic of pure poetry, cleansed of all content and reduced
to pure form, to pure song?

1st March
        When the sad evening comes and your heart is broken,
for no reason, your consolation still lies in your usual thought
that not even a gay, intoxicated, exalted evening has any
particular reason, except perhaps a pre·arranged meeting, an
idea that flashed across your mind that day, a trifle that might
never have happened. That is, you console yourself with the
thought that nothing has a reason, everything is casual.
Strange. It presupposes an enormous optimism, a confidence
in the mere event. As long as things simply happen and there
is nothing behind them, you are quite happy. Epicurean re-
nunciation ! The serene life ! Is it possible?

2nd March
         This need to be alone, not to feel that people ask any-
thing of you or carry you along with them . . . ; this dread
lest they should have the least right over you, and make you
feel it; this obvious tactlessness by others who expect some-
thing, take you for granted in any way.
         Instantly you become incapable, extinguished, stiff,
rebellious. Not one good word can you produce. You break
off, leave it.
                                                       303
     This Business of Living
        Your fierce resentment for the one who has so dis-
rupted your work and whom, out of pity or self-sacrifice, you
must still treat kindly!
        The inner well-being that comes from the profession
of moral politics, contact with the masses, is no different from
what we derive from any work, any activity to which we
devote ourselves. When you write something, immerse your-
self in it, you are serene, poised, happy.
         And if everything is only a question of well-being,
health, living efficiently? What will you say at the point of
death?

5th March
        The Roman school-that meeting place of journalists,
adventurers, writers, painters--has invented a reflexed art of
the type associated with Alexandria, a taste -for remodeling
a given style, technique, world, exercising their intelligence
without becoming involved. Longanesi and Omnibus, Cecchi
and Praz, Cardarelli and Bacchelli, Moravia and Morante.
Outside of Rome, Landolfi and Piovene. This substantially
was fascist art; what was alive and true-and cynical-in the
fascist period. Only the two extremes stayed free of it, Sicily
and Piedmont, which were not fascist, and discovered "bar-
barian" culture across the sea-Vittorini and Pavese. For
them, you need another formula.
        Fundamentally, humanistic intelligence-the fine arts
and letters--did not suffer under fascism; they managed to
follow their own bent, cynically accepting the game as it was.
Where fascism exercised vigilance was in preventing inter-
course between the intelligentsia and the people, keeping the
people uninformed. Now the problem is to shed the privileges
we enjoy at the moment-servitude-and not to "approach
the people" but to be the people, to live by a culture that has
its roots in the people and not in the cynicism of the "free
Romans."
         (Balbo says you are a pagan. No, a stoic.)
     304
                                                      1948

gth March
         The four greatest men-complex, inexhaustible worlds
in themselves, modern, but beyond our comprehension-are
Plato, Dante, Shakespeare and Dostoievsky. Each nation has
but one. If a nation is a complex mass of communal memories,
customs, habits and legends, it is natural that only once can
there occur a moment when the whole is perfectly balanced,
alive in the true sense.

23rd March
         Why eternity? We cannot understand what it may be.
To the objection that whatever boundary one puts to
existence, our thought would immediately leap beyond it, one
may answer: this does not prove that "beyond,. there is a
true reality; a small spore, endowed with the power of thought
and placed upon a sphere would always leap beyond it; this
does not detract from the fact that-for it-the sphere is
limited. We are so fashioned that our mind is always leaping
beyond-that is all-but it is not proven that time really
exists, therefore the problem of our caducity would disappear.
         How is it, though, that if time does not exist we are
built along the lines of a temporal scheme? If reality is always
unchangeable and motionless, why are we always changeable
and mobile?

27th March
         I and, I believe, many others, are seeking not for
what "is real" in an absolute sense, but for what "we are."
In these- thoughts that you are jotting down, you nonchalantly
tend to let your real personality emerge, your fundamental
tastes, your mythical realities. Yau would not know what to do
with a reality that had no roots inside your subconscious self.
         Deep down what you dislike about God is his greatest
quality-the fact that he is detached, different to you, the
same for everybody, and still a supreme being.
                                                       305
     This Business of Living
        But why, then, do you accept "yourseH"-that what-
ever seH that you happen to be? In a sense, is not God's seH
an object, just like yours? I don't think this is due to ambition.
Could it, perhaps, be laziness? Or the conviction that it is
useless to lean on someone, cultivating qualities which you do
not possess, write about things that you do not feel etc. Per-
haps the fault lies with your poetic education, which has
accustomed you to believe only in your real nature.

28th March
        This evening, a star between the branches of a tree
luminous as a yellow plum. Today, a fire beyond the hili-
a cloud of smoke in the clear sky-the first atomic bomb.
        This spring is like that of '46 in Rome. There is a
vague sadness, the absence of occupation after a work is
finished.

goth March
        The scent of the first evening shower, under a clear
sky. The open season returning. In life, there is no return.
As the seasons come around, the passing years color the same
theme in ever-different ways. The beauty of our own dis-
cordant rhythm-moderation and invention, stability and
discovery-is that age is an accumulation of equally important
things, growing richer and deeper all the time.

31st March
       One cannot understand how, in the days when the
only explanation of the world was that given by Christianity-
the Middle Ages-any man dared to be wicked, to die
impenitent.

Ist May
        I have now clearly understood this question of the
Chinese, and not without smiling. I explained to M.L., in
front of the beautiful hill, that I was angry at not being able
to do anything about it. I could only admire it. That was all.
     306
                                                1948
I could not even express the idea of wanting to possess it,
to drink its secret, to make it part of my flesh. I used the
parallel of the fruit: one eats the fruit and one assimilates
it; the same is true of the hill. But, and then what? I said;
in the meanwhile the fruit has disappeared.
        I admitted that the problem was only a literary one;
I explained to M.L. the reasons for the Chinese naturalistic
poetry-four thousand years of identical poetry-and I ex-
plained the magical structure of Chinese thought and society,
the correspondence between power and identification with
territory, the continuous reality of mountains, woods, swamps,
rivers, animals, etc. which goes to form the substance of hu-
man reality. The Chinese-! said-have already done all this.
And as a result? They have described landscapes. That is all.
        The West has always preferred man to nature. Nar-
rative poetry with heroes. The West discovered the landscape
through Romanticism, through (a magical) identification
with nature (Schelling etc.) .
1 xth   May
        This affair (from I 3th September, '4 7) is over. I
expected not to mind so much. It troubles me. She is more
sincere, being more passionate.

13th May
       Begin: This was the first time that C. left a woman
without feeling the urge to slam the door.
       Collect all your typical situations (you were born for
this):
               Violence and blood in the fields
               merry-making on the hills
               a walk around the summit
               the sea from the shore....
         Luckily, these situations are many.
                                                   26 Nov. '49
                                   Is this not the theme of The
                                   Moon and the Bonfires?
                                                      307
     This Business of Living

27th May
        A man who describes the country, the colors and shapes
of things, their delicate variations, the sensations they evoke,
does not see why he cannot in the same way describe a
woman's body--coloring, firmness, downy hollows, curves, sex.
The attitude is the same.

15th June
        "A pre-Christian pagan can save himsell provided that
he follows the road of natural goodness."
        Then what is the use of Christ's revelation?
        a) If he who hears it and observes gains more merit
than he who does not-then ifs an injustice.
        b) If he who does not hear it but follows natural
goodness gains the same merit-then it's useless.

26th June
        The more a person is intolerant of chains and needs
freedom, the more that person is a slave of habit. Evasiveness
IS mean.
        The memory of a hilltop you climbed long ago-the
field of daisies that, to your childish mind, was the whole of
nature-moves you deeply, even now, because it stands out
as the symbol of a great experience, the infinite number of
possible experiences that dawned upon you on that hill-top.
That is what "symbol" means. It brings before you, objec-
tively, a vast countryside, as if seen through the wrong end
of a telescope, presenting it as something wholly your own,
implying infinite possibilities.
        This applies to primitive fantastic creations, which are
simple, humble, infinitely less complex than the life we lead
nowadays, and yet fascinate us as much as a genuine top-level
experience.

grd July
        Our trouble is that we no longer believe in the dis-
tinction between things sacred and profane. (Sacred things
    308
                                                      t948
should be those imbued with power, unique, mythical.)
Consequently, things are either wholly profane (materialistic,
mechanical) or wholly sacred (reformed., Christianity, of the
spirit and not of the letter) .
        Taking it on a higher level, which means detaching
oneself from profane things in order to come closer to sacred
things, changes the viewpoint. One must detach oneself from
everything, to draw near to everything; enjoy every single
thing profanely but with a sacred detachment. With a pure
heart.

24th July
       How humiliating is a woman who gives you to under~
stand that she has her own way of life, has ideas, forms her
own opinion about you and other men, can do without you l
All you can do is ignore her, treat her as she treats you.
       Lovely company--a cry in the night.

grd September
        She talked and talked, told you the finest things. You
had work to do and she bored you. She said that werewolves
are the offspring of mad dogs; she said that dogs and vipers
have the same spine and the same smell; that the skin of a
viper infuriates a dog. She said that beasts know the hour of
Pan, that the werewolf howls at the moon, since it is a mad
dog. She said that she passed her time !'!earching for the links
and relationships between things, etc. She talked of Paesi tuoi,
which she has summarized.

grd October
      To Hemingway: Did you ever see the hills of Pied-
mont? They are brown, yellow and dusty, sometimes "green."
... You'd like them. Yours, C.P.

7th October
       On 4th October, Diavolo in collina was finished. It
has the air of something big. It is a new language; dialectic,
written with an atmosphere of culture and introducing
                                                      309
     This Business of Living
"student discussions." For the first time you have really set
up symbols. You have revitalized La Spiaggia, putting into
it young men who make discoveries, the liveliness of debates,
mythical reality.

8th October
       ( .................... )
       Strange. The women tolerated and hated in Paura
have names beginning with E; the desired and intangible
ones have names beginning with C: Elena, Elvira; Concia,
Cate.
       I opened Compagno at random and reread some of it.
It was like touching a live wire. Its tension is well above
average, due to the smooth cadence of the phrases; a surging
forward against constant frustration, a breathless excitement.

10th October
        The reputation with which they are saddling you of
a man who is solid, hard, wilful and successful, implies that
they intend to lean upon you, to push their roots into your
strength, to deflect it to their own advantage. In sum they
wish to destroy you. They do not seem to know that your
solidity was built with one end in view, which was not to
support them.
        An old dream. To live in the country with a beautiful
woman-Greer Garson or Lana Turner-and lead a simple,
perverse life. This was a thing of the past. You don't think
about it any more.

14th October
      " ... I don't give a damn what's in it ..."says Nat. 1
She wants "real life," tales about wretched women.

I   5th October
           Before the cock crows.
1   Natalia Ginsburg, widow of Pavese's great friend, Leone Ginsburg. Ed.
        310
                                                     1948

I6th October
        Since you are an egoist, they all fawn upon you to
serve their own ends.

24th October
        "It is an honor for us" the person said ... then. In
the spring of '45· These things only happen once. What is it
that matters? As long as the world is in a crisis, you can play
this game, but afterward?
        Are you ready to die in obscurity? It must happen one
day. To consider death as an incident-whereas it is some-
thing tremendous.

3 Ist October
         You discovered that V. does not feel embarrassing
situations. Strange in one who aspires to be a man of the
world. When one gives him an evasive reply he insists and
insists. Why? Out of affection or self-interest (trying to seem
in the social swim)? Sheer boorishness? In any case, it pleased
you to observe this.

1 Ith November
        Another discovery: the pleasure of going into a sub-
urban cafe you have never seen before, watching the gamblers
and the few customers, savoring the life of a world that you
have always felt outside of, that yet seems to hold so much
of your own past and the hopes you had then. A modem
cafe, almost empty. Soon after, a red-headed, rather uncouth
girl came in with a man who was no stranger, and you went
away happy.
        For some time now, general impressions and thoughts
have seemed less important. You notice the moments.

19th November
        Knowing what one wants from the day, working
seriously, that is, also gives us a way of summing up situations
                                                       311
    This Business of Living
and men. B. gets involved in painful situations, floundering
about in them with a great loss of time and energy, because
he does not work seriously. Then he fails to notice other
situations which can only be clarified by applying intensive
effort and technical skill to that end. A fresh proof that to
know something one must do it, to know the world one must
construct it. Take care not to think that to construct means
to overthrow, to change at all costs. The science of reality is
the science of the possible, the progressive, not of violent
agitation to no purpose.
        That he who does not strive towards an end does not
understand reality, in other words c~ot perceive a rational
order in reality, seems to mean many things. It means that
rationality is only an instrument for action (Bergson), or else
that our nature is rational whereas action tends towards truth
(St. Thomas and Marx)?
        Before and after do not count. We "exist in a rational
sphere." This is inescapable; it's the logic of the irreversibility
of culture, of progress, of knowledge. Leopardi complains that
one cannot escape real bitterness. Why bitterness? Because
all departure from habit is uncomfortable. Nothing else. The
new generation arrives and thrives on it. The older one might
as well have made the effort.

27th November
        A situation with little white curtains of lace on windows
overlooking the Valentino Park; a warm room in the morning
(it's winter outside) ; the dream has come true-during the
night, suddenly and in the dark, woman and love had entered.

srd December
        It is a pleasure-one of the most authentic-to realize
that everyone is compelled to choose, that he cannot have
two things at once. It is an appeal to the tragic in life, the
fact that one value runs counter to another. You have re-
nounced so many things to have just one, and it pleases you
that this same rule bears heavily on every man.
        People who take something for granted annoy you, in
     312
                                                      1948
that they are trying to escape this element of tragedy. The
same applies to people who enjoy things like pagans, in that
their avidity does not recognize the uncertainty of the occasion.
Aspiring to obtain something, laying claim to it, is in itself
annoying, in that it seeks to obviate the ir()ny of life.
        We hate others, because we hate ourselves.
        Yet you take things for granted when you should not.
Which raises the point of purity of heart, humility, acceptance
of God's world.

5th December
        A place that pleases you (Turin with its red clouds in
winter, the countryside, parks and so on) is not to be described
enthusiastically as you did when you were young. Rather, it
should be presented in a plain, clear-cut fashion, as life is to
a man who lives there. That is its true expression, as in
Dostoievsky, for instance. In that way, indirectly, such places
will remain in the imagination of the reader. One obtains
what one does not strive for.

8th December
         The Greek spirit originates from the encounter between
a "quality" and a pre-existing culture (Achaeans-Pelasgians).
Hence the critical effort to adapt and to understand. Hence
"criticism" (Homer, Hesiod-the Ionians etc., the Trage-
dians). The other (Eastern) people did not make this effort
-they either succumbed, or destroyed, or vegetated together.
         From that effort came detachment, irony, plasticity,
rationality, individual freedom. The other people never
emerged from their maternal magma ( autochtony, satrapy,
universal slavery. In art: the fable and hieratic decorations).
         Ionic culture was already a Renaissance (in that it
involved the discovery of another culture, the encounter and
the acquisition). The other culture was the Minoan.

II th December
        The Hebrews who, in their day, exalted morality and
justice, calling them the Holy Spirit, Wisdom, ended, without
                                                        313
      This Business of Living
realizing it, by exalting intelligence, which is also called the
spirit. ( Cf. recent history.)

18th December
        R. Bene says: "Neither the proletarians nor the bour-
geois will like it."

2oth December
       The girl who is working and watching herself in a
mirror. The man who sees her, sees her and talks to her.
They go out together.
       The girl praying by the cash register. She prays and
prays for her customers. She goes to the Valentino Park with
one of them, who knocks her down and rapes her.
       The girl is ugly and sees herself in the mirror. All day
long. The man tells her that he is laughing and she seeks
comfort in the mirror.

2 I st December
         The man thinks her flat and cold. She is tremendous
and orgiastic. She loses all control. The man is afraid.
        (Reading Lucas. )
        The art of the nineteenth century was centered on the
development of situations (historic cycles, careers, etc.) ; the
art of the twentieth on static essentials. In the first, the hero
was not the same at the beginning of the story as he was at
the end; now he remains unchanged. Childhood as a prepara-
tion for manhood (nineteenth century) ; childhood viewed
only as such (twentieth) .

25th December
       The man who renounces things systematically and
with conviction, has built his life upon the very things he has
renounced. They are all that he sees.
       Strange, this craze for wanting a duplicate of every-
thing: of the body, the spirit; of the past, the memory; of
     314
                                                        1949
the work of art, a critical evaluation; of oneseH, a child. . . .
Otherwise the first theme would seem wasted, vain. And then,
what of the second? Is it because everything is imperfect?
Or because "things are seen only for the second time?"
      "I came to Turin at carnival time, as students and
mountebanks used to, in olden days."

soth December
        Latin epithets are impressionistic, lyrical and fairy
tale, exquisite inventions; the Greek ones are a residue of
antiquity, hieratical, obscure clots.
        The first consequence of the concept poetry = terra
incognita is that the poet works and discovers when he is
alone. All the advice that he receives is centered upon known
themes ( = literature) .

31st December
        A most important year, my work definitive and as-
sured, my technical and material position established. Two
novels. Another in preparation. As an editor, a dictator.
Recognized by all as a great man, a good man: By all? I do
not know.
        You will find it difficult to go further. Not that you
think much of all that. You did not hope for it in the past and
it amazes you. You reached it while seeking only to work
hard, with a good will. Go on, prepared to find that the fruits
may burn to ashes by tomorrow. That should not matter to
you. Only so will you expiate your good fortune and show
yourself worthy of it.




1949
srd January
       Another stroke of luck. Poesia      e liberta,   read and
much enjoyed.
                                                        315
         This Business of Living

8th January
        I have heard of . • .'s stubborn conviction that his
book ( ... ) is important. He and his wife refer to it as "our''
book. A ... appears to have liked it and he also says that I
am a hermetic, difficult writer. . . . He would have written
for the people, for everybody. His poetical theories are in
agreement with those of Socialism. (You could say what R
had to say on 18th December about The devil in the hills:
neither the proletarians nor the bourgeois will like it.)
        The discovery you made in '38 that the message of
the Americans is the sense of a mysterious reality underlying
the words ( cf. the preface to Alice T oklas) is true, but must
be extended to cover the period of Emerson, Hawthorne,
Melville and Whitman. At that time you attributed it to
Anderson, Stein and so on. This shows how authentic was
the revival of I 91.6, taking up again the great national theme.
A new sense of American democracy considered as a means
of enlightenment. The man who is free discovers cosmic
reality-a harmony between things and the spirit, a play
of symbols transfiguring the things of daily life and giving
them a value, a significance, without which the world would
be reduced to a skeleton.

I I thJanuary
        The blockhead you listened to this evening ("we all
seek our own advantage, the partisans are just the same, ideal-
ists are fools, what matters most is dying, and tomorrow all
will be well") is like you yourseH in your moments of pru-
dence. If you had refuted that in the past (i.e., taken action),
perhaps you would not be here now (Leone). Tragedy. Yet
lh a hundred years will anyone believe in you? No. Then,
everyone will believe in conforming.

13th January
       To live amid people is to feel like a leaf in the wind.
There comes the need to isolate oneself, to get away from the
determinism of all those billiard balls.
         316
                                                        1949

 19th January
        A review by Cecchi; review by DeRobertis; review by
 Cajumi. You are acclaimed by the great masters of ceremonies.
They. tell you: "you are forty years old and have made your
 name; you are the best of your generation and will go down
in history; you are exceptional, authentic...."Did you dream
of anything else, at twenty?
        Well? I shall not say: "Is that all, and now what?"
 I knew what I wanted, and I know what it is worth now
 that I have it. I wanted to go on, take it further, absorb
another generation, become everlasting, like a hill. Hence,
no delusion. Only a confirmation. Tomorrow (always sup-
posing my health stays good) go on fearlessly. I will not say
"begin again" because no one ever begins. There is always a
past, a previous time, even in this. Tomorrow I shall be back
at work, as I was yesterday.
        Yet, what sound insight I had, what a coincidence of
will and destiny! What if the value lies in this and not in
the works?

 28th January
         The state of vagueness, of indefinite seeking, still per-
 sists. The problem I have previously often touched upon
 presents itself again: you are unaware of living, because you
 are looking for a fresh theme; you pass through days and
 things as in a dream. When you have begun to write again
you will think only of writing. In other words, when do you
live? Plumb the depths? You are always carried away by
your work. You could be on the point of death without no-
ticing it.
         That is why infancy and childhood are a never-ending
source of inspiration: then you had no work and looked at
life dispassionately. Hence the healing power of love, grief,
adventures: then you put aside your work, become a boy again
and discover life.
         A writer should never have to live by his writing,
for then he has to produce work to order. He no longer has
                                                        317
    This Business of Living
freedom of choice. At any moment he should be able to say:
"No. I won't write this." That is, he should have some other
means of livelihood. What is more risky than to support a
family on one's novels, or in a general way by one's pen?

8th February (At S. Stefano Belbo)
         For glory to bring us pleasure, the dead would have
to rise, the old grow young again, absent friends return. We
have dreamed of it in a tiny setting, among familiar faces
that for us were all the world, and we want, now we are
grown up, to see the reflection of our deeds and words upon
those faces, in that little place. They have vanished, scattered,
died. They will never come back. Then we despairingly look
around, trying to re-create the little world that left us alone
but wished us well, and now should be amazed at us. But it
no longer exists.

13th February
        Strange, the moment when (at thirteen or twelve) you
left your country home, had your first glimpse of the world,
and set out, buoyed up by fancies (adventures, cities, names,
strong rhythms, the unknown) . You did not know you were
starting a long journey that, through those cities, adventures,
names, delights and unknown worlds, would lead you to dis-
cover how rich in all that future was your moment of depar-
ture, the moment when, with more of the country in you than
the world, you gave your backward glance. The world, the
future, is now within you as your past, as experience, skill in
technique, and the rich, everlasting mystery is found to be the
childish you that, at the time, you made no effort to possess.
        Everything 'is in one's infancy, even the fascination of
what the future will be, which only then is felt as a shock
of wonderment. ( Cf. 26th June, '48.)

27th February
        A limpid night, clean and crisp. At one time, it used
to excite my senses. Not now. I have to remember, tell myself
"it's the way it was then," to feel it. Nor does that urge to
     318
                                                    1949
talk, to impose my personality, still come over me. Is this
because of my never-ending anxiety, my state of nerves over
what has already happened or because of some imminent dis-
aster? Is it due to age, to the glory and security I have more
or less acquired?
        In reality, the one thing that touches me, moves and
inspires me, is the magic of nature, a glance fixed upon the
hill. When that theme is not in mind, when instead I have
a human subject, a game of city life and morality, that is
when my imagination flags.

1st March
         A laugh--casting doubt upon your motives, vmcmg
the suspicion that you have maneuvered things shrewdly to
achieve a given purpose (publishing your book) without seem-
ing to do so. May it not be that the laugh conceals spite at
hearing you talked about, aims (falsely) at discrediting you,
hinting that you are a crafty schemer-attributing to you,
that is, the very incentives of the man who laughed?

7th March
        She says: "the way a man interests himself, or not, in
a woman, all women, reveals his manner of living." You say:
"I can do without them," and so you avoid every entangle-
ment of life that might hinder you in your work. Another
man says: "I must not lose my chastity, lest sanctity should
be barred to me," and so, in his doubt, he would like to
consider the matter closed. Another takes things as they come,
enjoys himself, and so lives in close touch with daily life. A
man who likes to analyze and vilify everything to do with sex,
does the same with life and in the way he lives; he cheapens
things because he views them as material organisms. Vulgar
stupidity.

1 Ith   March
      The thing is not to analyze, but to represent-in a vivid
way, with analysis implied; present another reality on which
new analyses can be based, new standards, a new ideology.
                                                     319
    This Business of Living
It is easy to talk about new analyses and so on; difficult to
bring them forth as a rhythm, a coherent, complex grasp of
that reality.
         The dialect ideal is the same in every period. Dialect
underlies the story. One must, however, run the risk of writing
standard speech, that is, of entering into .history, choosing a
way of expression, a style of literary language, a danger. In
dialect one does not choose-it is spontaneous, unpremedi-
tated, spoken instinctiveiy. In literary language, one creates.
Of course, dialect used iri fiction is a way of telling the story;
it is then a choice, a style, etc.
         27th March, '48 is important. We always confuse what
we are with the truth. This is the historical error-idealistic
relativism. We can try to justify it attributing importance to
what we must be according to the iron law of historic neces-
sity. This is called dialectic materialism. If nothing else it
obliges us to know thoroughly the necessity that governs us.
But is that all there is to reality? In that way, the tendency
is to place the absolute in the future, in revolution. Yet do we
not also deeply enjoy the present-hie et nunc? Lavorare
stanca?

13th March
        The boy: what I do not get at once, I no longer want.
        The men of the sixteenth century acted as men of the
sixteenth century. They represent the first case of a culture
consciously and critically rooted in another one; theirs was
a culture of adaptation, of pose. Not even the Hellenized
Romans were so "reflected," because in fact they did not
have a sufficient culture to make an impact on the one they
had acquired.

23rd March
       Without seeming to, I have begun my new novel: Tra
donne sole. A clear-cut, assured work that presupposes a
sound construction, inspiration that has become habit. (It
takes up again the theme of La S paggia, La T en.da and
     320
                                                       1949
several poems about women.) It should bring out something
new.

grd April
        Before Christ and the Greek Logos, life was a constant
close contact with nature, a cmtinual exchange of magic
between men and nature; whence came power, determina-
tion, destiny. One turne~ to nature, and was regenerated.
        After Christ and after Logos, nature was no longer
taken as the mystical spring of strength and life (which now
comes from ~he Spirit). The ground is prepared for modern
science, which states and classifies the material world, indiffer-
ence to nature.

5th April
         All passions fade and die away except the oldest, those
of infancy. The ambitious or libidinous dreams of childhood
are insatiable, because maturity-the only age that could
satisfy them, has lost the opportunities, the fresh sensitiveness,
the means, the true setting in which those passions originally
come to the surface.

 1oth April
         Your sound position, the esteem in which you are now
held, came about just as you imagined they would when you
were a boy. This amazes you-that maturity should be exactly
what you expected when you were- without any experience.
Unless you have forgotten the wild dreams of those days, and
little by little have transformed yourself into what you now
think you sighed to be then? In any case, you made no mistake
about one thing, and it was believing that you would feel
satisfied with your beginnings and your hopes.
         Many people-perhaps all-reveal faults, cracks in
their make-up. Natalia, Balbo, even the new ones (D'Amico)
-no one charms you any more. If you had no faith in what
you are doing, in your work, the material you are creating,
the pages you write, what a horror, what a desert, what a void
                                                        321
    This Business of Living
life would be ! The dead escape this fate. They keep them-
selves intact. Leone, Pinter, even Berto. Fundamentally, you
write to be as dead, to speak outside of time, to ·make your-
self remembered by all. This for others, but what for yourself?
Will a memory, many memories of yourself, suffice you? Re-
membering that you are Paesi tuoi, Lavorare stanca, il Com-
pagno, I Dialoghi, il Gallo?

12th April
      A newspaper black with headlines like a storm.

14th April
         "She proceeds and returns without a pause
         Because her task is eternal,
         Because her icy breath puts out a light
         which shines once more, and gloriously."
       I wrote these lines when I was fifteen, in reply to a
sonnet by St. in which Death was described ascending a hill.

17th April
        Discovered today that Tra donne sole is a great novel;
that the experience of being engulfed in the false, tragic world
of high society is broad and congruous, and blends well with
Clelia's wistful memories. Starting from her search for a child-
ish, wistful world that no longer exists, she discovers the gro-
tesque, sordid tragedy of those women, of Turin as it is, of
her own realized dreams. Her discovery of herself, and the
emptiness of her own world, which saves her ("I've got
everything I wanted").

2oth April
        We all educate ourselves in our own fashion. He who
appears to be committing a mistake, is actually "doing" some-
thing. (You and M.)

26th April
      They do not aim at creating works. They theorize
about poetry that is to be the exact reflection of the present
     ln
                                                      1949
moment (the atomic bomb, world communications, nuclear
physics, etc. )-and then-why write the work? By the time
it was done it would already be out of date, a compromise with
reality, with traditions; it would be objective history, and so,
instead, they are disturbed because they have studi~d history
or heard about it (things done, styles created); they grow
impatient, they want the style of the period, not works; they
lose touch and are concerned only to make no mistake about
corresponding precisely with the present moment. Never any-
one who says: "Anyway, I have a style and I like it. It must
be some use for something...."

28th April
        The Americans are not realists. I discovered this while
watching an American film remade from an old French
film. What had been real atmosphere, a genuine setting, was
now a shabby backcloth. Their vaunted realism 1920-1940
was a particular kind of romanticism about "living reality."
The fanciful idea that everything is realism ( Dos Passos). The
point of view is not tragic, but "voluntaristic." Tragedy is
a clash with reality; "voluntarism" is to make a comfort of
it, a way of escape from true reality.

29th April
        It is extraordinary, the idea that all your awkwardness,
every uncertainty, every fit of rage-in short, every negative
thing-may always reveal tomorrow, when seen from a differ-
ent, wiser point of view, a new value, a quality, a positive
treasure.
        But the converse is also true. Every boast of yours may
fail, may collapse under you. What does it matter?

7th May
       In any other business or profession one can live ac-
cording to the cliches of that particular job, "playing the
part." Writers and artists, no. They would be bohemians,
blockheads, intolerable bores. Why? Because painting or writ-
                                                       323
     This Business of Living
ing is not a business or profession.. At least, not in these days.
(Cf. 28th January.)

26th May
        Today, Tra donne sole is finished. Each of the con-
cluding chapters written in a day. It came with extraordinary,
questionable, facility. Yet it clarified i~lf little by little, and
the great discoveries (journey through a world dreamed of
since she was a little girl, and now vile, hellish) came to me
after about a month, in early April. I tackled it with a good
heart. But I wonder whether I was playing with lay figures,
miniatures, lacking the grace of a stylized creation. But the
basic idea, was it not tragic?

 22nd June
         Now the itch to write is over, the vacuum in my
 brain begins again. My novel finished, I feel twinges of rheu-
 matism or arthritis. Is it that you can feel only one thing at
 a time, or do you imagine them?                              ·
         What a lot of  things you have  done in this last month.
 Your brain is empty; S. Stefano (a week), then sun and
 water, outline sketches, an idea for a new book. Probably
this is your most intensive period, and it is getting past its
best. That is so true that you notice it yourself. What new
 thing shall we discover, how shall we live so that we can
watch it when it begins to stink? The end will come. And
then?
         There are people who have never known this maturity,
this efficiency, this measure of richness. What do they know
of life? Life is nothing but this. And then? The happiness of
a peach, a grape. Who would ask for more? I am alive, and
that's enough.
         We all like or are interested in a different scene. The
R.'s like Via Calandra, the R.'s like Ivrea; Nat. likes the
foulard. It's a good sign.
         G. and the woman resemble each other. They only
talk about themselves. Theirs is the narrowness of the high life,
the problem of the viveui's who run around in their cages
     324
                                                      1949
like squirrels. The others, the ones without a care in the world,
are not like that. But these viveurs are cheating at their own
game. They have no manners. This is the lowest form of a
mentality created by D'Annunzio.

25th June
        Old Mentina, at the Cabianca, what does she see in
life? What does she know of the vast accumulation of thoughts,
of the facts of the world? She has never changed the sense,
the rhythm, that the far-off days of childhood had for you.
And now that you see her again, in her seventies, ready to
die, not even thinking she could change this static way of
life, what has she less than you? What is all your multiple
experience, compared with this? For 70 years she has lived
as you did when a child. It is a th.iug to make you shudder.
It means ignoring history.

1St July
        A serious and real person, who lacks the "Spirit" is
bound to become stubborn in life, because the letter by itself,
without the Spirit, kil1s. That person shall adhere to the letter
of things, of thoughts, of feelings, as if trying to give them a
consistency, a reality which they would not have otherwise.
        This evening, when I dined at Pavarolo with the
three G.'s and with E. N. and M., I was aware for the first
time-in an objective sense-of a physical decline, of my
incapacity to make an effort, a leap, an "exploit." I felt ill
and distorted the whole evening. To save myself, I hated
the world, man, the whole company. It's an old story. Fil.
came today. She knows Fed., who knows Mar. She said that
she begrudges me the fact that I am famous and that Mar.
is always mentioning me. This is an easy, common trait-
barefaced innocence. There's nothing in it.

27th July
       The word that describes (echoes) a rite (a magic
action), or a forgotten, mysterious fact (evocation), is the
only art that interests me. To portray life directly-if it were
                                                        325
     This Business of Living
possible-would be useless, because man interests himself
only in a rite or an occult reality.

goth July
        Going through the rough copies of Lavorare stanca,
I have found in the pages of August-September, '32 ("Fuma-
tori di Carta") the following lines, which had been crossed
out.
. . . . I have seen once again the August moon
among the alder trees and the cane fields,
on the gravel by the banks of the Belbo,
and each thread in that stream was filled with silver.
But the silent companion who was sitting
by me on a tree trunk could not see that sky,
nor feel the plants. I knew that all around, all around me,
great hills were rising.•••

18th August
         Literature is not in conflict with the sense of what is
practical, but with a sense of reality. The fact that the things
described really exist gives them a significance and strength
outside literature. If they do not exist, literature is enough
for us; if they do, we want poetry arid myth.

22rid August
       From rejections (failures '41-'47) this beginning (of
15th November, '39):
        2 ) Cinina was not thinking about the fog, and still
she walked as if she were alone in the road. The feeling that
nobody was near or around her was sweet, and Sunday-like.
        I) Cinina was walking in unforeseen directions,
vaguely following the patches of fog which the morning was
clearing away. She stopped when she came to a square..••
                      (preparation for the Curtain
                              or The beautiful summer.
     326
                                                      1949

23rd August
         In art one must not start with a complication but work
up to it; not begin with the symbolic fable of Ulysses, to
astound the reader, but with a simple, ordinary man and,
little by little, give him the significance of a Ulysses.

2nd September
       All Christian explanations of history {see them in
Lowith, Meaning of History, p. 188)-that Palestine is the
dramatic center of the world, etc.-sound like fabrications.
       Nature is not a breath of wind, a dream, an enigma
destined to vanish away-it is something solid and substantial.
       Inherited resourcefulness is simply this: to do a thing
well because that is how it should be done. (On reading
Piedmonte by A. Monti in ll Ponte1 ).

I 2th September
        The really absorbing residual-mythical constructions
are in bookS that employ a system of analytical research:
Propp, Philippson, Toynbee. Probably also in scientific works.
Here is the true, authentic prose of research (a story-seeing
how someone, or something, reacts to a given situation),
similar to the construction of a detective novel. We can be-
lieve in such works because they are the only ones that keep
us in suspense, make us want to see what the end will be.
 (And the story has no characters, no psychology; it is not a
chronicle of events but a series of proofs, each leading to
the next and carrying us CAl to a final elucidation that includes
all the preceding ones.)

goth September
        You no longer have an inner li!e. Rather, your inner
life is objective and is the work-galleys, letters, chapters,
consultations-that yo a do. That is dreadful. You no longer
t   Italian Literary Review. Ed.

                                                        327
     This Business of Living
have hesitations, fears, the sense that life is amazmg. You
are drying up.
        Where are the moments of anguish, the outcries, the
loves of those years between eighteen and thirty? All that you
are now expressing was acquired then. What now? What can
you do?
        This is where fate must come in and show what you
are. Everything is implicit in yourself. EVf'.n your intolerance of
this state of affairs and its consequent disorder and chaos.
Vico's solutions.

16th October
        Does anyone exist besides yourself? You talk of nothing
but yourself and your work. You have reverted to that state
of childhood before you discovered the world, when life con-
sisted of you and the game you were playing, and nothing
else. Something in you is coming to an end. And then?
        La luna e i falo: That is the title I have had in mind
ever since the time of Dio caprone. Sixteen years. I must put
everything into it.
        How many times in these last entries have you written
"and then"? Aren't you getting into a rut?
        I am too happy. Polycrates and Amasias.

17th November
         On gth November I finished La luna e i falO. From
 I 8th September is less than two months. Almost always a
chapter a day. It is certainly my greatest exploit so far. If it
succeeds, I have reached my goal.
         I have completed the historical cycle of my own times:
Carcere (anti-fascism behind bars); Compagno (anti-fascism
under cover); Casa in collina (resistance); La luna e i falo
 (post-resistance). Side issues--the war of '1 5-' 18, the war
in Spain, the war in Libya. The saga is complete. Two young
men ( Carcere and Compagno); two forty-year-olds ( Casa in
collina and La luna e i falo); two workmen ( Compagno and
     328
                                                    1949
La luna e i falo); two intellectuals ( Carcere and Casa m
collina).

2oth November
        G. has fallen. Do you care?
        Love as you have always desired it. Do you care?
        A solitary celebrity. Do you care?
        One could continue.
        Thoughts spring to life-precise, fresh, well-phrased,
efficient. Maturity. If you had known this at the time you
were mad for it ('36-'39) I Now you rave because it is com-
ing to an end. First you panted to have it, now you dread
losing it.
         You also have the gift of fertility. You are master of
yourself, of your fate. You are as famous as any man can be
who does not seek to be so. Yet all that will come to an end.
         This profound joy of yours, this glow of super-abun-
dance, is made of things you did not take into accqunt. It
 was given to you. By whom? Whom should you thank? Whom
will you curse when it all disappears?

24th November
       "One must be reasonably honest'' says ..... I have
never said so, but I have always done so, unconsciously. For
fear of complications. To live without disturbance. Why do
I not spend money, pick up women, stay at a big hotel?
Simply to save myself the trouble of overcoming the boredom
that would follow such efforts. I have no aptitude for living
in style-it troubles me. A question of upbringing. But nor
do I feel any special need for the things I have always been
used to--modest well-being, careful dressing, good repute-
the things that show. What I must have is something more
fundamental: undisturbed peace of mind about the morrow.
Therefore my honesty is due to self-interest. What point
would it have otherwise?
        Today, the first copy of Estate. Lovely. Virginal. Re-
                                                      329
    This Business of Living
spectful congratulations from my colleagues. The status of a
man who has arrived. Gave some advice (from the height
of my advanced years) to young Calvino: I apologized for
working so well; I, too, at his age, was always behindhand and
in difficulties. Did anyone ever talk to me like that when I
was twenty-five? No. I grew in a wilderness with nothing to
help me but a proud determination to build my own atoll in
this unknown land, burst out of it one day and (when other
people had noticed it) be already an important man. It seems
tl:rat I am succeeding. That is my strength (and that is why I
will not read or describe a book of mine to others, before it
is finished) .
          D. has remarked that my women are whores. She is
amazed by it. My amazement is that it should be so. I have
never thought of it.

26th November
        ( Cf. 28th January, '42.) Levi has been saying that
"memories" are the moments when we feel face to face with
things, with other people, when we are most conscious of
our individuality. This is the reason why memories bring such
delight: in them we fir..d our moments of awakening, our
knowledge of the world.

Lavorare stanca
                        1930
                        1933
                        1936       Words and sensations
                        1938
                        1940
Carcere, Paesi tuoi       1938' 193 9 )    Naturalism
Bella Estate, Spaggia     1940, 1941 J
Feria d'agosto    1941, 1942 }       Prose poems and an
                  1943, 1944 j       understanding of myths
    330
                                                       1949
La terra e la morte        I945 }     the extremes:




                                      I
Dialoghi con Leuco         I 945      naturalism and detached
Compagno                   I 946        symbolism

La casa in collina
                            1947-48
Il diavolo sulle colline       1948       S    bolic reality
Tra donne sole                 1949        ym
La luna e i falo               1949

28th November
        Night comes, when I begin to feel drowsy. Every noise
-the creaking of wood, a disturbance in the street, an un-
expected far-off cry--stirs up a kind of whirlpool in my brain,
a sudden, swirling whirlpool, in which my mind and the whole
world are swept to ruin. In an instant I anticipate an earth-
quake, the end of the world. Is this a relic of the war, the
air raids? Is it an acquired awareness of the possible end of
the universe? It leaves me exhausted-that is the word-but
what does it mean? It is not unpleasant-a light buoyant
feeling, as though I had been drinking, and when I recover,
my teeth are clenched. But what if, one day, I do not recover?

Ist December
        Walking on the banks of the Po, in front of the Monte
dei Cappuccini. It is growing dark and foggy, the villas sink
into obscurity, all I can see is the dark, shaggy outline of the
hills, wild and shadowed. What use is all this beauty? What,
at least, does it mean? There come to mind my thoughts on
the superstitious-savage (the summer of '44), on the unreality
of what is savage (1oth July, '47), on the magic of the
countryside, and I reach the conclusion that "savage" is
nothing but a magical conception of the world, with no
possibility of influencing us in ways that are irrational, not to
be measured or foreseen. What does it amount to, this dis-
turbing sense of what is "savage," this somber, obscure beauty,
                                                        331
     This Business of Living
this emotion, if it affects us only as something beautiful, im-
pressive? Is not all this a refinement of civilization? What is
savage, to exist at all, must have a vital effect even upon some-
one illiterate, on a peasant, on a practical man; it must be
power, not beauty.
        I discovered the other evening how much I have been
influenced by reading Sun and The Woman Who Rode Away
by Lawrence ('s6-'37).

srd December
        Graves' idea (in The Common Asphodel) of broaden-
ing a telegraphic poem by Cummings into a rhetorical-de-
scriptive sonnet, to show how right Cummings was in writing
in that impressionistic and boneless fashion, thus avoiding the
meditated and thought-out cliche of the full sonnet, proves
only this: that neither the sonnet nor the futuristic poem
should ever have been written. Cummings' poetry in fact is no
more than a sensorial display of sensations and images (as
shown by the paraphrase) which tells us nothing but a cliche.
Poetry must "say" something, and therefore it is pointless to
make it violate the rules of logic and syntax, and the·universal
manner of saying things. All the rest is literature.
        General condemnation of the whole of "avant garde"
art.
        I must find: W.H.I. Bleck and L.C. Lloyd, Specimens
of Bushman Folklore, London, zgu. It contains stories about
mothers and the moon-the magic world of hunters, of real
things and animals-in the time of Aurignac.

5th December
        Fundamentally, the pleasure of screwing is no more
than that of eating. If there were embargoes on eating, as
there are on screwing, a whole ideology would come into
existence, a passion for eating, with standards of chivalry.
This ecstasy they talk about-the vision, the dreams evoked
by a screwing-is no more than the pleasure of biting into
a medlar or a grape fresh from the vine. One can do without it.
     332
                                                      1949
         That snug feeling of December, '44, with everyone
gathered together into one room, between the smell of the
kitchen and the window misted over by the snow-covered
hills, the way we looked forward to coming back from those
hills in summer weather-will it all come back again? And
our thoughts about quiet, spiritual reading, the hope of su-
preme peace (like that of the kitchen)-we need those, too.

6th December
        What is intolerable is not that there should be a
formal, elementary culture of an average type imposed on us,
a righteous type stuffed into us as birds feed their young, but
that this should be the only type; that it should no longer
be possible to go beyond it and see it from the outside, in
the world where discoveries are made.
        My thought on Ist December makes it clear how
fascism is born. The irrational culture of the nineteenth cen-
tury had to emerge from contemplation and become power,
economic security. It had to stop being of use only to the
educated classes, and also begin to serve the illiterate. The
origins of our present barbarisms.

15th December
       The fact is that I have become that strange creature:
a made man, a name that means something, a "big man."
Where is the little boy who wondered how to talk, the adoles-
cent who fretted and grew pale on thinking of Homer or
Shakespeare, the youth of twenty who wanted to kill himseH
because he felt good for nothing, the deluded wretch who
clenched his fists, doubtful whether he would ever be able to
confound his girl with his greatness? Obviously, it is only your
experiences as a young man that enter into your stories, the
only fundamental, unselfish experiences you have ever had.
As for the "big man," you will write of him when you are
old.
       Your two adult experiences-success and importance,
bewilderment and nothingness-(' 45-' 49 and '43-'44) you
                                                       333
       This Business of Living
have already treated in Tra donne sole and Casa in collina.
You will have to express them more fully.

17th December
        Who would have guessed that Spagnoletti (Pinter's
strange Spagnoletti!) would have discovered your Terra e
la M orte? That little poem was an explosion of creative
energies which had been pent up for years ('41-'45) and were
never fully rdeased by the short stories in Feria d'Agosto,
but indeed were excited by the discoveries made in writing
this diary and by the tension of the war years (Create!) in
which you found a new passional virginity-through religion,
detachment, virility-and finally there were the mixed oppor-
tunities deriving from women, Rome, politics and the book
on Leuco, swelling inside you.
        Generally speaking you must remember that in the
years between 1943 and 1945 you were reborn in isolation
and meditation (in fact during "that" period you theorized
and lived your infancy) . This explains your open season of
'46-'47, with Leuco, The Comrade, Before the Cock Crows,
The Beautiful Summer, The Moon and the Bonfires, etc.
        Grandeur is not forbidden. What is forbidden is gran-
 deur without the sanction of the powers that be.

I8th December
        There was a warm wind last night, and I read the
myths and legends of Mrica. Now it is morning, a fresh, blue
morning, with yellow sunshine. These legends are the story
of something happening for the first time; they have that
simplicity, that sense of surprise. Even if what they say is
not aborigine, they have that atmosphere; simple statements,
never descriptions, no adjectives; a rhythmic structure that
constitutes drama, suspense.

23rd December
      It is starting.... Gigli: "Triptych by   Pavese."'~

1   The first review of La bella estate. Ed.

        334
                                                      1950

29th December
        A visit to Milan, a trip to Rome. Am I beginning to
enjoy moving around again, traveling? Coming back from
Milan, after twenty-four hours absence, I rediscovered Turin.
May this always be the finest thing about traveling, rediscover-
ing one's own place?
        I really am excited. Tomorrow I go to Rome. Will it
be as it was in July, '45?
        The fame Vittorini has won in America, has it made
you jealous? No. I am in no hurry. I shall beat him in the
long run. Vittorini has been the voice (in anticipation-that
is what is so grand about it) of the clandestine resistance
period, naked, vital love, abstract ragings that bring it all
to life in an heroic mission. He has sensed the epoch and
given it his own legendary quality. Just as D' Annunzio pre-
sented the "imperial" epoch and the "literary civilization,
of the nineteen-twenties. Both of them are mouthpieces. They
create a style of life, of talking, feeling, doing. You aim at a
style of being.
        R. has told you (talking of Diavolo sulle colline) that
your work gives the impression of a young man, and is rather
alarming because of that; you are handling a material that
may fly to bits. I did not quite understand this. But was it
entirely complimentary?

goth December-6th January
      My trip to Rome.




Ist January
       Rome is a crowd of young men waiting to have their
shoes polished.
       A morning walk. Bright sunshine. But where are the
                                                       335
    This Business of Living
impressions of '45-'46? After some effort I found what inspired
me then, but nothing new. Rome is silent. Neither the stones
nor the trees tell me anything more. This amazing winter;
under the clear, cold sky, the berries of Leuco. The usual
story. Even grief and suicide were part of life, shock, tension.
        At great periods you have always felt, deep within
you, the temptation to commit suicide. You gave yourself to
it, breached your own defenses. You were a child.
        The idea of suicide was a protest against life; by dying,
you would escape this longing for death.

2nd January
         Came back through Uffici del Vicaro. Old faces (the
girls, the men, myself) . We realize things are happening when
they have already happened. You know now how full your
life was in '45-' 46. Then, you lived it.
         It is the same with history. A taste for the past, for
conservation. Destiny is giving yourself to life, living it to the
full. Only later does it clarify itself and become coherent,
constructive. Destiny is what we do without knowing it, sur-
rendering ourselves to it. In one sense, everything is destiny:
we never know what we are doing. There is a slight, rational
consciousness that pricks us superficially, and that we ought
to cultivate as deeply as we can. What remains outside our
consciousness (posterity will understand it-in this sense it
 is not irrational), is destiny. Historical example: the true
significance of Robespierre's work, which he himself believed
 was the political edification of virtue, is now understood as a
scientific, historical development, but for him it was his destiny.
 Later generations, of course, will see an even deeper meaning
 in the work of Robespierre, and then the historical interpre-
 tation, too, will be part of his destiny, it will have been his
 destiny (a result of which he was unaware) .
         The connection between destiny and superstition: the
 former is an instinctive action, not yet understood or fore-
 seen, the latter is an instinctive action after its meaning is
      336
                                                      1950
understood. The first is a way of being alive, the second
of being dead.

srd January
        The directions that destiny can take are not subject
to variation. We may affirm that a certain undertaking (some-
times? always?) is good, that it welds together all our days
in a planned development-but it was, initially, a bud that
had to take its own course and come into existence.

4th January
         Now I see, I realize, what is so wrong with Rome.
Easy friendliness, taking life as it comes, money earned and
spent without a thought, yet everyone's standards, tastes, de-
sires are wholly subjugated to money-making.
         Even your thirties are beginning to seem to you like
infancy, adolescence. Now the culture you acquired then
can be used in your novels. Virility becomes a matter of in-
tuition ("fiction-writing" ) when it seems part df your ado-
lescence.
         When one has absorbed an experience and can view
 it with detachment, it takes on a childlike ingenuousness. Great
 poetry is ironic.

 7th January
        In Rome, you explained to "Uncle Sandra" that every-
 thing of value must be preserved-all hopes, all that gives
 savor to life, the humanities, liberalism, good education and
 so on. It is a question of finding the historical-political canon
 that will permit this. Now, would his way of thinking save
 the things that you yourself feel must be saved? Apparently
 not.

 gth January
        Your inordinate passion for natural magic, for what
 is "savage," for the truth about spirits dwelling in plants,
                                                         337
     This Business of Living
stretches of water, rocks and country places, is a sign of
timidity, of your urge to escape the duties and obligations
of the human world.
        While you are so absorbed by this mythical need to
grasp the reality of things, it takes courage to look with the
same eyes at men and their passions. It is difficult, uncon-
genial-men lack the immutability of nature, her vast scope
for interpretation, her silence. Men come up against us, im-
posing themselves upon us with their agitations and self-
expression. You have tried in various ways to petrify them-
isolating them in their most natural moments, immersing
them in nature, reducing them to their destiny. Yet your men
talk and talk-in them the spirit expresses itself, comes into
bloom. This is your tension. But you suffer in creating it, you
would never wish to find it in real life. You long for the
immobility of nature, silence, death. Of them you make myths
with infinitely varied meanings, eternal, intangible, yet throw-
ing a charm upon historical reality, giving it significance and
value.

1oth January
          You have had the fruitful idea that destiny is myth,
the savage (the emotion of La Vigna) and that for this reason
--once it has been explained-if destiny were to remain as
a concept in its archaic form, it would become superstition.
Destiny is what is mythical in a whole existence, in a drama.
It is what happens before one knows that it has happened.
It is what looks like freedom but later reveals itself as dictated
by the iron rules of a pre-established pattern. Destiny is the
historian before he is understood in terms of his associations
and of his necessity-freedom. Poetry, when dealing with men,
always looks at destinies-moves along its lines and perhaps
understands destinies, makes them clear, transforms them into
stories-.
          But you ( gth January) start from the men who are
understandable and, in order to make them poetic, reduce
them to their destinies. Your process seems to be the reverse
     338
                                                       1950
of art, which transforms myth into "logos." Or else one works
at establishing this transition. One debates it, striving towards
form, towards a fable, a self-sufficient organization, and then
one rebuilds, on a basis of rational understanding, the figure
of myth-destiny. Wishing to "recreate life" one goes back to
natural forms, plunging once again into the mythical vortex,
into the forms that will surprise, just as nature and life are
endlessly surprising.

14th January
         I am filled with distaste for what I have done, for all
my works. A sense of failing health, of physical decadence.
The downward curve of the arc. And your life, your loves,
where are they? I retain a certain optini.ism: I do not accuse
life, I find that the world is beautiful and worthwhile. But I
am slipping. What I have done I have done. Is it possible?
Desire, longing, the urge to take, to do, to get my teeth into
something new. Can I still do it? (All that because of a flood
of unfavorable reviews of Diavolo sulle colline.)
         Thinking again of the sisters D./ I know that I have
lost a great opportunity of playing the fool. Rome grows more
colorlul as I look back.

I 7th January
        Relationship between "destiny" and "superstition."
Mter the "Poetic interpretation of destiny" one finds that
destiny is the real mythical aspect of human life; superstition
is the known mythical aspect of life, and therefore a false one.
A life is "fatal'' when it has a mythical cadence, a pre-estab-
lished rhythm which, however, should not be dissolved into
a rational awareness, as this would destroy it; a life becomes
superstitious when one insists in regarding it as a mythical
scheme, knowing full well that it is not, and understanding it
rationally. A life whose rhythm, whose rotations, are de-
liberate and willed.
1- Constance and Doris Dowling, two young Americans in Rome with a
film unit. Ed.

                                                        339
     This Business of Living
         We are in this world to transform destiny into free-
dom (and nature into causality) •
         (Corrected on 30th January).
         Continued from II para of 10th January.
         Poetry is repetition. Calvino has cheerfully arrived to
tell me this. He was thinking of popular art, of children, etc.
For me poetry is repetition in as much as it is the celebration
of a mythical scheme. Herein lies the truth of nature's in-
spiration, of art being fashioned along the lines of natural
forms and sequences, for these are indeed repetitive (the
patterns of single parts-leaves, organs, mineral veins-and
the fact that each part is repeated ad infinitum) . Therefore
one overcomes nature ( mechanicism) by ir.lltating it in a
mythical fashion (rhythms, returns, destinies) . But each gen·
eration must take into account what it knows about nature,
 and overcome it by means of mythical schemes which may
 not be separated from such knowledge. (This evolutional
 method was unknown to ancient art which had therefore an
 easier task because its rational notions were fixed and conse-
 quentially it applied old and familiar mythical schemes.)

30th January
         A superstitious man is one who still believes in a myth
that has already been eclipsed by history, that we now have
the means to dispel. Correct 17th January. The man who
parades a myth he no longer believes in is a hypocrite, a
reactionary. The superstitious man may be a fanatic, the
reactionary, a cynic. A skeptic is one who does not believe
in any myth. A fatalist is one who realizes within himself an
authentic myth that he believes; such a man is not free.
         To create a completely free character is impossible.
The ups and downs of his own life (which cannot be elimi-
nated) will be his destiny.
         Shall we be able to go further one day and consider
 even liberty a myth? That is, view it from a point at which it
 reveals itself as destiny?
      340
                                                               1950

1st February
       Intuition produces myth-religion.
       Will power produces history-poetry or theory.
         Errors:
               Wanting to make history out of intuition.
               Wanting to make myth out of will power.
       Will power can be applied to myth in order to tran.s.-
form it into history. Destinies which become freedom.

gth February
        Corollary. The theme of a work of art cannot be a
truth, a concept, a document etc, but only, once again, a myth.
From myth directly into poetry, without passing through
theory or action.

15th February
         "Pavese is not a good communistm.... Tales of in-
trigue everywhere. Shady counterplots, that could then be the
talk of those who are nearest your heart.
         Historical life developed from the myth, not from
religion. Myth, pre-history; religion, over and above history.
         They talk of festivities, Carnival, getting together..••
Good friends of yours, men and women, nice, friendly people.
You do not feel even a wish to go, or the least regret. Some-
thing else presses.
         What a little thing is the life, the pleasure, the work
of these girls. So their parents must think. Seen from the
outside, they used to seem to you rich and mysterious. They
are common household appliances.
1 A few months earlier, Pavese bad been asked to write a series of articles
on contemporary Italian literature to launch a new review, Cultura •
realttl. The first two aroused fierce controversy because some views Pavese
expressed in them were considered anti-communistic. ( Cf. also the entry
for 27th May 1950.) Ed.
                                                                341
    This Business of Living
         You are always talking about: things before they are
known, things after they are known. • • • The problem is
always that-to rationalize, to take cognizance, to make
history.
         Meanwhile, you have reduced to the imagery of the
blood under the fig tree in the vineyard everything that hap-
pens and is not yet unfierstood: landscapes, strange coinci-
dences, psychological disturbances, the ups and downs-the
cadences-of a life, destinies. (If, for you, there is poetry in
these images, it is clear that, by recognizing a doctrine which
may explain everything, you would become incapable of
writing poetry.)
         Of course, it is not sufficient to state the unsolved
problem-poetry is presenting that problem as it is, making
its mystery felt, its "savage" quality. But then, where is the
power of knowledge, in writing poetry?

18th February
         Culture must begin with what is contemporary and
documentary, with what is real, to soar to the level of the
classics, if that be possible. The humanistic error is to begin
with the classics. That accustoms us to unreality, to rhetoric,
and in the end leads' to the cynical disparagement of classical
culture, the mQre so because it has cost us nothing and we
have not appreciated its value (as a contemporary presenta-
tion of the periods concerned) .

26th February
       A trip to Tuscany and Emilia. I thought of my essay
on poetry and popular culture; thought, above all, of the con-
nection between the countryside and culture, of the natural
(botanical and mineral) roots of art. At Florence (Rovez-
zano) and in Val Pesa, Elsa-Siena-you felt why that land
has given birth to art. The country expresses the grace of
Florence and Siena. But when a civilization is no longer linked
with the country, what will be the radical sources of its culture?
     342
                                                       1950
Are we henceforward to be cut off from the influx of botany,
minerals, the seasonal changes of the countryside upon art? It
would seem so.

27th February
       I saw S. Asciutto again, hard, taciturn, weary. He
spoke of his pleasures, his trips into the country and up the
mountains after coleoptera, in the rain; he listened absent-
mindedly and in silence to my talk about Tuscany, my vivacity,
my poses. He never made a comment. The embarrassment I
felt would at one time have been disastrous, tragic. What sus-
tains me? The work I have done, the work I am doing.

6th March ( Cervinia)
         This morning at five or six o'clock. The morning star,
huge and quivering ,on the mountains of snow. Excitement,
trepidation, insomnia. 0.1 was sweet and submissive, but none
the less detached and firm. All day my heart has been pounding
and still has not calmed down. (For three nights I have hardly
slept. I talk and talk. ) What is called passion, is it not simply
this wild beating of the heart, this weakness of the nerves? I
am much worse than I was in '34 and '38. Then I was fren-
zied with desire, but I was not ill.
         Yet it all seems to me a pasSing wandepunkt. All of it.
But she is a well-known figure, socially and morally. Suppose
there were some misunderstanding?
         And I? Am I not deluding myself as I used to do, mis-
taking for human values those simple accessories of distinction,
glamour, adventure, the fashionable world? America itself, its
sweet, ironic return to my life in terms of human values? Can
it be true?

gth March
        My heart throbs; I tremble, I cannot stop sighing. Is it
possible at my age? What is happening is the same as when I
1   Constance Dowling. Ed.
                                                        343
      This Business of Living
was twenty-five. Yet I feel confident and (incredibly) serenely
hopeful. She is so good, so calm, so patient. So made for me.
After all, it was she who sought me out.
         But why did I not dare, on Monday? Was I afraid? .••
It is a terrible step to take.

16th March
        It was a terrible step, yet I took it. Her incredible
sweetness, her "Darlings," her smile, her long-repeated plt.....s-
ure at being with me. Nights at Cervinia, nights at Turin. She
is a child, an unspoiled child. Yet she is herself-terrifying.
From the bottom of my heart, I did not deserve so much.

2oth March
        uMy heart is still with you/) A condescending phrase
from a superior to an inferior. Why should I be so pleased
about it? Obviously, I am receiving favors, not bestowing
them. How can one possess without being possessed? Every-
thing depends on that.
         From the talk I had this evening (with P.) it seems
clear that I am "possessed" because I enjoy playing the inter-
esting role of a man who "belongs" to a woman. I ought to
 be the master and take my pleasure calmly, as though by right.
 I shall be loved more. Only so shall I be truly loved. But shall
 I enjoy it more? Whenever I have been the possessor, I have
 had no pleasure at all. The old story.
         Then I must be possessed without showing it. But is it
 possible to make love with a prudent awareness, a predeter-
 mined self-control?

 21St March
        A hard day. International situations; Italy threatened
 by covert civil war; rumors of atomic reaction to come in
 April. Everything seems likely to separate me from her, send
 her back to America, to blockade Rome, ruin the whole affair.
         Did I suffer like this before? Yes, then I suffered from
       344
                                                      1950
the fear of death. There is always something to suffer. Resign
yourself. Stoicism, this is what counts.

22nd March
       Nothing. She has written nothing. She could be dead.
I must get used to living as though this were normal.
       There are so many things I have not told her. Deep
down my terror at the thought of losing her now is not a long-
ing for "possession," but the fear that· I shall never more be
able to tell her those things. What they may be I do not now
know, but they would pour out like a torrent if I were with
her. That is creation. Oh God, make me find her again.

23rd March
        Love is truly the great manifesto; the urge to be1 to
count for something, and, if death must come, to die valiantly,
with acclamation-in short, to remain a memory. Yet my
desire to die, to disappear, is still bound up with her: perhaps
because she is so magnificently alive that, if my being could
blend with hers, my life would have more meaning than
before.

25th March
       One does not kill oneself for love of a woman, but be-
cause love-any love-reveals us in our nakedness, our misery,
our vulnerability, our nothingness.

26th (morning)
       Before leaving for Milan. Nothing. Still nothing. How
can I bear it? Now, in the street, by myself, I speak excellent
English.

27th (evening)
       Nothing. I have a live coal in my breast, embers glow-
ing under the ashes. Oh Constance! Why? Why?
                                                       345
     This Business of Living

28th March
       Good. She has written. I have talked to her long dis-
tance. She does not want me at once. Oh well, that is fine.
Work.
2oth April (After Rome)
       Perhaps at this moment she is flying over the Atfantic.
For two months. How can I wait so long? And wait for what?
Everyone--Lalla, Nat, Doris-tells me it will never do, that
we are different, that it will never amount to anything. "What
do you want?" I want you, for life. Could that be enough?

·26th April, Wednesday
        Beyond doubt, there is in her not only herseH, but all
my past life, the unconscious preparation-America, my
ascetic restraint, my intolerance of trifling things, my work.
She is poetry, in the most literal sense. Is it possible that she
has not felt it?
        Curious, this procession of women-I., L., R., L., and,
all unawares, V. and D. They all know or guess that a sacred
mystery is taking place within me, and are filled with wonder.
        The opinion of all those who know is that she has been
very impressed by me, that she thinks more of me than I
imagine. Can they all be wrong? They are women.
27th April
       And now. Everything is happening at once. Truly, to
him that hath shall be given. But he that hath, does not take.
The old story.
8th May
       The cadence of suffering has begun. Every evening, as
dusk settles, my heart constricts until night has come.
1oth May
        The idea is dawning on me, little by little, that, even
if she does come back, it will be as though she were not here.
     346
                                                      1950
"I'll never forget you," is what is said to someone one means
to leave.
        Anyway, how did I act myself towards women who
weighed me down, bored me, women I did not want? Exactly
like that.
        The act-the act-must not be a revenge. It must be
a calm, weary renunciation, a closing of accounts, a private,
rhythmic deed. The last remark.

12th May
        I have written another sketch: Amore amare-Bitter
Love. It will have the same fate as the last, and even if it did
better, what else will it do but take her farther from me?

13th May
        Deep, deep, deep down, did I not grab at this amazing
love affair, seize upon this undreamed of, fascinating thing, to
make myself revert to my old thought-my long-standing
temptation, to have an excuse for thinking of it again . . . ?
Love and Death-this is the hereditary pattern.
16th May
        Now even the morning is filled with pain.

27th May
        My happiness of '48-'49 is paid for in full. Behind that
Olympian contentment lay my impotence and my refusal to
become involved. Now, in my own way, I have gone down into
the abyss: I contemplate my impotence, I feel it in my bones,
and I am caught in a political responsibility that is crushing
me. There is only one answer: suicide.
        Dilemma. Should I act in perfect amity, doing it all
for her own good, or diabolically explode? A pointless ques-
tion-already settled by my whole past, by fate:' I shall be a
diabolical friend, gaining nothing by it-but perhaps I shall
have the courage. The courage. Everything will depend on
having it at the right moment-when it will do her no harm-
but she must know it, she must know it. Can I deny myself that?
                                                       347
       This Business of Living
           Certainly, I know more about her than she does about
me.

goth May
           All these lamentations are far from stoical.
           So what?

22nd June
         Tomorrow morning I leave for Rome.1 How many
more times shall I say those words? It is a great stroke of good
fortune, no doubt, but how many times will it still bring me
pleasure? And then?
        This journey looks 'like being my greatest triumph.
Social acclaim, D. will talk to me-all the sweet without the
bitter. But then? What then?
        Do you know that the two months have passed? And
that, any moment, she may return?

14th July
         Came back from Rome some time ago. At Rome,
apotheoses. But now, this is it. Everything is crashing round
me. My last sweetness in life I had from D., not from her.
         Stoicism is suicide. People are dying in battle again. If
ever there is a peaceful, happy world, what will it think of
these things? Perhaps what we think about cannibals, Aztec
sacrifices, witchcraft.
                         All is the same.
                         Time has gone by.
                         Some day you came,
                         Some day you'll die.
                         Someone has died
                         Long time ago.

20th July
           I cannot finish with style. How she still attracts me.
1   To receive the Strega Award. Ed.
        348
                                                      1950

13th August
        It's something very different. It is she, who came from
the sea.

14th August
        She, too, ends up in the same way. She too. It's all
right. By now they are all waves of this sea.

 16th August
         My dear one, perhaps you are really the best-my real
 love. But I no longer have time to tell you so, to make you
 understand-and then, even if I could, there would still be
 the test-test-failure.
         Today I see clearly that from '28 until now I have
 always lived under this shadow-what some would call a
 complex. Let them: it is something much simpler than that.
         And you are the spring, an elegant, incredibly sweet
 and lissom spring, soft, fresh, fugitive--ea.rthy and good-"a
 flower from the loveliest valley of the Po," as someone else
would say.
         Yet, even you are only a pretext. The real fault, apart
from my own, lies with that "agonizing disquietude, with its
secret smile."
         Why die? I have never been so much alive as now,
never so young.
         Nothing can be added to the rest, to the past. We
always begin afresh.
         One nail drives out another. But four nails make a
cross.
        I have done my part by the world, as best I could. I
have worked; I have given poetry to men, I have shared the
sorrows of many.

17th August
       Suicides are -timid murderers. Masochism instead of
Sadism.
                                                      349
    This Business of Living
         The pleasure of shaving myself after two months of
prison-doing it by myself, in front of a mirror in a hotel
room, and outside was the sea.
         This is the first time I have drawn up a balance sheet
for a year that is not yet over.
          In my work, then, I am king. In ten years I have done
it all. H I think of the hesitations of former times. . . .
          In my life I am more hopeless, more lost than then.
What have I accomplished? Nothing. For years I have ignored
my shortcomings, lived as though they did not exist. I have
been stoical. Was that heroism? No, I made no real effort.
And then, at the first onset of this "agonizing disquietude," I
have fallen back into the quicksand. Even since March I
have struggled. Names do not matter. They are only names
that chanced to drift my way; if not those, there would have
been others. What remains is that now I know what will be
my greatest triumph-and this triumph lacks flesh and blood,
life itself.
          This is the balance sheet of an unfinished year, that I
won't finish.
          I have nothing left to wish for on this earth-except
the thing that fifteen years of failure bars from me.
          Why should it amaze you that other men brush past
you, unaware of all this ferment, when you yourself rub shoul-
ders with so many and do not know, do not care, what their
anguish may be, their secret cancer?

18th August
        The thing most feared in secret always happens.
        I write: oh Thou, have mercy. And then?
        All it takes is a little courage.
        The more the pain grows clear and definite, the more
the instinct for life asserts itself and the thought of suicide
recedes.
         It seemed easy when I thought of it. Weak women
have done it. It takes humility, not pride.
        All this is sickening.
        Not words. An act. I won't write any more.
     350

